we announced our intention to boost the we do business in a way that creates value for
6 stakeholder engagement 60 an employer of choice greenhouse gas emissions targets.

protecting biodiversity chain emissions, particularly from dairy.

26 water stewardship 76 child labor reporting index
providing more information about balanced
31 responsible sourcing 77 tcfd index our work in coffee through the nescafé plan diets via digital tools.

commitment key performance indicator 2021 2022 2023
nestlé
exceptional products to our customers
we aim to reduce our greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions by 20% by 2025 and net reduction of ghg emissions vs.

all our operations we aim to achieve and maintain 100% assessed deforestation-free primary
known brands and innovative offerings, deforestation-free (%)
supply chains (for meat, palm oil, pulp and paper, soy and sugar) by 2022
primary supply chains for cocoa and coffee
allowing us to meet the ever-changing 188 and 2025 for cocoa and coffee
+ meat, palm oil, pulp and paper, soy and – – 93.4%2
countries we sell in sugar assessed as deforestation-free (%)
demands of consumers.

covers emissions related to our net zero commitment.

in our dedication to growing our business,
net reductions (%) of ghg emissions vs.

the denominator
with micronutrient fortification (mnf) (billions)
includes all raw materials in scope: coffee, cocoa, dairy,
annual review for more detail on this topic.

table of contents our business model and progress against commitments creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 3
governance
our governance and implementation structure
sound governance is essential micronutrients, the reduction of during 2023, the council met
board of directors board committees
greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions, 12 times.

there was a particular
to create shared value, meet
plastic packaging designed for focus on how the nestlé brands were the board is responsible for the company’s strategy and sustainability audit
organization and provides oversight over its financial committee (sc) committee (ac)
our environmental and recycling, the reduction of water delivering on the esg & sustainability
and non-financial performance and reporting.

it relates to reporting obligations (articles 964a
nestlé’s esg & sustainability strategy
the reduction of ghg emissions.

to
details of board-level remuneration the swiss code of obligations) which
ensure we meet our aim of long-
and bonuses are available in our require specific disclosures on esg
term, sustainable value creation, the executive board
compensation report.

the csv council is an external advisory body
approved and regularly reviewed strategy, which includes ensuring compliance with
provides strategic leadership and
that advises senior management on a range of
by the board of directors and its mandatory reporting obligations.

the council addresses the
the 2023 nestlé creating shared the esg & sustainability council provides strategic
performance data are generated
following topics: 2050 net zero, leadership and execution support, and drives the
value and sustainability report to be
sustainable packaging, water, every quarter and progress is implementation of nestlé’s esg & sustainability
issued on february 22, 2024, subject
reviewed by the esg & sustainability strategy, including our 2050 net zero roadmap,
responsible sourcing, upstream
to approval at the annual general
ensuring focus and alignment.

in 2023, they – advocacy reports
– systems and reporting
relate to affordable nutrition with
advises
table of contents governance creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 4
our material topics
tnemnorivne
eht
dna
elpoep
no
éltsen
fo
tcapmi
rojam
health & nutrition
water management
environmental & social
ecological impacts impacts of ingredient
supply chain
ghg emissions
product quality & safety
tnacfiingis
circular economy
employee health
& safety human rights &
labor practices
physical impacts of
packaging lifecycle climate change employee acquisition,
management talent management
access & affordability
& retention
product labeling &
employee engagement,
marketing
diversity & inclusion
etaredom
business ethics
animal welfare
community relations
elbigilgen
evaluating our material topics
report chapters
covering topics
10
5
6 governance 1
4
stakeholder engagement 9
3
13
on the road to net zero 2 3
nestlé employs a comprehensive our approach managing risks
restoring nature,
protecting biodiversity 2 3 4
and systematic approach to overseen by the esg & sustainability in addition to the materiality
14
looking at the 17
council, we update our materiality assessment, a risk assessment at
identify its most material topics 8 whole landscape 2 3 4
assessment every two years.

the assessment helps to reviewed at group management level.

our materiality process
review.

these include customer
satisfaction, systematic and further information on business
critical risk management of the risks related to our different material
material establish stakeholder materiality review publish in
legal and regulatory environment, topics is included in the 2023 nestlé topics selection external context engagement assessment strategies csv and
changing consumption patterns, annual review, under principal risks sustainability
report
business models and innovation and uncertainties.

board (sasb) aligned input assessed results and adjust
material topics selected priorities accordingly
table of contents our material topics creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 5
stakeholder 2023 stakeholders and activity examples
in a fast-evolving global context, 2023 engagements included: global partnerships:
engagement
climate: – refocused our partnership with ifrc, with
we exchange relevant esg
a five-year strategic partnership for the
– published the nestlé climate advocacy
disaster response emergency fund.

information and communicate industry associations review.

consumers: social media, brand at the heart of climate action, backing the work on the goal of reducing global food loss
and waste while working to eliminate hunger
campaigns, transparent information.

landscapes and the emirates declaration
to assess our impacts on the identified
on resilient food systems, sustainable
customers: regular meetings,
esg material topics, we engage with our agriculture and climate action.

stakeholders at a local, regional, national – partnered with key suppliers to commit to – publication of good for you, our new
climate change mitigation.

csv council’s agenda is defined by nestlé’s continued to offer farmers close agronomy – hosted '3 horizons' facilitator training with
support and worked directly with them on 50 key stakeholders and nestlé employees
commitments and activities to advance
– coffee: nescafé plan 2030 progress report,
academia and science: symposia, various pilot projects.

to advance collective thinking on waste
regenerative food systems.

not limited to, issues that impact the business
and nespresso the positive cup 2022 transparency: – continued partnerships with customers and
related to climate, nature (forests, land and startups such as circulation in germany to
progress report.

climate roadmap and water management.

table of contents stakeholder engagement creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 6
on the road to track our progress, we put in place the following kpis:
nestlé ghg emissions*, ghg removals and % net reduction vs.

2018 baseline
(million tonnes of co2e)
to net zero
100
peak carbon
90
91.17** 13.58%
79.55
2018 baseline net ghg emissions
ghg emissions* vs.

2018 baseline***
80 0.76
78.79 ghg removals
net ghg
emissions**
70
net zero
60
roadmap
launched
50
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
* includes scopes 1, 2 and 3 covered by the net zero roadmap.

2023 absolute co2e reductions and removals from our interventions sustainable
(million tonnes) development goals
(sdg) contributions
removals 6% responsible sourcing 28%
recipe reformulation 6%
logistics 4%
packaging 7%
13.29
our science-based approach at the end of 2023, we: million tonnes
– achieved a reduction in emissions of 12.75% vs.

manufacturing 15%
– are more than halfway to our 2025 net zero roadmap target of 20%
mitigate emissions across our
absolute emissions reductions against a 2018 baseline.

impacts on natural ecosystems, – are planning further ghg emissions reductions to reach a 50% cut in sourcing – soil & forest 9% sourcing – dairy & livestock 25%
absolute terms across our net zero scope by 2030.

table of contents on the road to net zero creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 7
total scope 1, 2 and 3 ghg emissions
approach
(million tonnes of co2e)
in 2020, we published the nestlé net zero
103.58* 2018 baseline: roadmap (see the latest report here) to set out
97.80* in scope for net
98.75 how we plan to meet our net zero commitment
zero roadmap
93.79
87.54
by 2050.

guided by the roadmap, we have been
84.08
transforming our business to deliver reductions
in ghg emissions across all three scopes of our
79.55**
activities, according to the criteria approved by
the science based targets initiative (sbti).

million tonnes
93.29**
88.42**
a detailed analysis of our ghg emissions,
carried out when setting our 2018 baseline,
showed that nearly 95% of our footprint was
1.44 0.74 0.31
made up of scope 3 emissions in our supply
3.38 3.27 3.16 chain, such as from farming and land use.

dairy
2021 2022 2023
67% sourcing our ingredients
ingredients are our largest single source of
and finished goods
scope 1 (emitted directly) emissions, accounting for 24% of our total.

5% manufacturing our products
scope 2 (emitted indirectly market-based)
to tackle our scope 3 emissions we have
12% packaging our products
scope 3 (in scope for net zero roadmap)
developed the nestlé forest positive strategy
7% managing logistics
scope 3 (not in scope for net zero roadmap) and the nestlé agriculture framework.

we also
9% overheads and others
reduce the carbon emissions associated with our
* restated due to acquisitions, divestitures, emissions factor restatements and adjusted scope.

nestlé initiatives, context
such as the with suppliers, farmers and communities to
nescafé plan,
renewable electricity at our manufacturing in 2023, the impacts of climate change increase the use of regenerative agricultural
place farmers
as indicated in the graphs above, 90% of
sites at year end (%), with a target of 100% by 2025 at the center,
continued to affect more people and ecosystems practices.

we are delivering nestlé’s net zero
nestlé total emissions (87.54 million tonnes) providing
are in scope of net zero (79.55 million tonnes).

around the world, notably through extreme roadmap through emissions reductions and
91.9% in 2023
we are following sbti guidelines, restating weather events.

voluntary market credits to deliver against our
following scope 3 emissions from our net
63.7% in 2021 nestlé accelerated performance during 2023, sbti-approved targets.

zero commitment: direct use-phase of sold
achieving a 13.58% ghg emissions reduction
products, purchased services, leased assets,
capital goods and investments, totaling relative to the 2018 baseline**.

climate change just 5% of our baseline emissions were scopes
7.99 million tonnes co2e.

we use the task force primary strategy is to reduce ghg emissions
of the emissions related to the indirect use-
91.9% on climate-related financial disclosures (tcfd) by increasing energy efficiency and also by
phase of our sold products is optional and
methodology to assess and disclose our climate transitioning to renewable energy sources.

this chapter and summarized in the appendix of
science-based emissions reduction targets
this report.

the sbti has validated nestlé’s
refer to the 2023 nestlé annual review.

table of contents on the road to net zero creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 8
task force on climate-related more information on our erm approach is tcfd transition risks outcomes of transition risk modeling
reported in ‘information and control instruments in the context of a transition to a low-carbon depending on the global actions taken to
financial disclosures (tcfd)
vis-à-vis the executive board’ in our corporate economy, over the next 10 years transition risks address climate change, in the short-to-
climate-related risks are treated the same
governance report.

will be affected by changes in policy, including medium term we estimate that transition risks
way as other risks at nestlé and fully
potentially on carbon pricing and taxes, and will become material to our business.

we
the outcomes are incorporated into the group’s review.

for the latter, we considered how climate
risks are analyzed against low-, intermediate-
climate change impacts consider both qualitative and quantitative factors,
strategic planning: risks may impact business forecasts prepared
affect all aspects of our and high-emissions pathways and these can
value chain and the including those with a potential impact on our
– top-down climate assessments are formally for testing our goodwill and indefinite life
complex ecosystems where vary significantly depending on the nature and
strategy, business model and product categories.

incorporated into the annual strategic intangible assets (see note 9 of the nestlé group
speed at which jurisdictions act to align to a
portfolio reviews for strategic business units consolidated financial statement).

each
unit considers how climate-related risks
may affect its strategy and future business
transition risk modeling
projections.

scenarios* emissions high intermediate low
– bottom-up scenario analyses are conducted trajectory
across our value chain to assess the resilience temperature +4.0°c to +5.0°c +2.0°c to +3.0°c +1.5°c
of the group’s strategy under different increase by 2100
climate scenarios.

we worked with third- global few or no steps taken to reliance on existing/planned immediate and coordinated action
party experts risilience and their academic action against limit emissions policies (not commitments) to curb emissions
climate change
partner the centre for risk studies at the
business scope upstream, direct operations and downstream.

university of cambridge judge business
school to model transition and physical risks, modeling simulations net zero – nestlé’s 20% absolute emissions decrease by
2025 and 50% by 2030.

teams, including procurement, agriculture
and business continuity management, risk categories policy risks
actions to limit climate emissions include carbon tax, regulations linked to land and water use, restrictions
review the most significant climate-related
and/or bans on specific materials, enhanced emissions-reporting obligations, etc.

the scenario analysis
risks, develop mitigation strategies and
modeled carbon tax as a proxy for policy risks.

technology risks
– our properties, plants and equipment are
costs related to decarbonization of the value chain, including replacement and substitution of emission-
geographically widespread and therefore are
intensive assets, materials and services.

the scenario analysis modeled the share of energy from
not materially exposed to climate transition renewables as a proxy for technology risks.

risks nor to climate physical risks.

* scenarios were based on existing published scenarios, including the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) socioeconomic pathways and the international energy agency (iea)
world energy outlook scenarios.

table of contents on the road to net zero creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 9
transition risk impacts, mitigations and future opportunities
estimated directional
cumulative 10-year
discounted cash flow
impacts under impacts with our current mitigation strategy under future
climate trajectory* mitigation strategy our net zero roadmap opportunities
risk value chain impacts assuming no intermediate low emissions
mitigation emissions +1.5°c
category
+2.0°c – +3.0°c
policy operations – increase in raw med high – switch to 100% renewable electricity by 2025; 91.9% in our by implementing our net zero roadmap, we
raw materials costs.

we continue to review opportunities to reduce
– enhancing resilience to changing weather patterns.

our risk exposure levels further and address
– aim for 20% of our key ingredients to be sourced from upside potential of the societal transition to a
farmers adopting regenerative agricultural practices by low-carbon economy.

on this basis we anticipate the following
– prioritize deployment of climate-smart agriculture
opportunities:
practices in highly exposed geographies.

– increasing the resilience of our supply chain
– diversify sourcing origins from highly
through climate-smart agricultural practices.

exposed geographies.

– reducing direct costs from lower-emissions
– product ingredient substitution: by 2030, plant-based
sources of energy.

proteins are anticipated to contribute 0.74 million tonnes
– limiting exposure to regulatory changes and
co2e to our ghg emissions reduction target.

increased operational costs due to carbon
prices via reductions in our emissions.

demand for low-emission products
– increase in cost of – cross-industry collaboration to drive collection and
and services.

recycled packaging management of packaging at scale; currently active in
– growing consumer demand for low-carbon
materials due 46 of our markets.

offerings in terms of taste, texture, flavor
market brands and – loss of revenue and/ low med – constant review of products and business models based and nutrition.

climate impact.

– constantly assessing opportunities
to reduce our products’ footprint,
technology operations – asset write-downs, low low – switch to low-emission technologies.

low-emission
technology to meet
market regulation.

* we do not display the high-level emissions scenario due to its low impact level.

table of contents on the road to net zero creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 10
tcfd physical risks internal viewpoint
impact of climate and physical risks on nestlé’s key ingredient yields by 2040
we have modeled physical risk based on an
modeled yield changes by 2040 vs.

2022
intermediate scenario, in which climate-related uk france
researching
+2% increase or more germany
risks such as heatwaves, drought and water
-2% decrease to +2% increase
-2% decrease or more
stress may be more frequent and severe.

we
resilient
have modeled these risks and in 2023 made china
the following updates:
coffee plants
– our modeling partner risilience has
ingredients italy
reflected the physical science released in spain
arabica
the ar6 climate change 2021: the physical us
robusta
science basis — ipcc.

colombia
– included the latest sourcing data for the year, dairy
fine-tuning the origins of commodities to
barley brazil indonesia there are more than one billion coffee drinkers in the
reflect our business.

meanwhile, some coffee
mexico ecuador
– modeled yield changes for 12 commodities,
plantations are increasingly affected by drought and
rice ghana pakistan india
representing approximately 90% of our total
disease because of climate change.

we included sourcing locations and
chile
volumes and considered their vulnerability to wheat côte our work at the nestlé institute of agricultural sciences
argentina
d’ivoire south africa thailand malaysia australia
climate change.

we
included the locations where we source from using technologies in the fields of genomics, phenomics
and how the temperature and precipitation physical risk impacts, mitigations future opportunities and artificial intelligence, we develop new coffee
and opportunities
changes at those locations might deviate we believe that the group continues to varieties using traditional plant breeding methods.

transition to a lower-carbon model.

this is due to our broad higher yields compared with standard varieties and
warming scenario intermediate (+2 to 3 °c by 2100)
some of the key risks on yield will be driven
geographic scope, supply chain flexibility, have been distributed to growers in central america.

amount of land, fertilizer and energy, the result is an up
assumed current footprint remains static until 2040
simulations than average warming rises.

the resilience
to 30% reduction in the carbon footprint of the green
of farmers and communities will be key.

enhance farm resilience and, with that, mitigate beyond the development of superior coffee varieties,
** the raw materials are arabica coffee, robusta coffee, palm oil, cocoa, dairy, climate risk for our key ingredients.

table of contents on the road to net zero creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 11
performance action on renewables our value chain (scope 3)
by year-end 2023, we sourced 91.9% renewable in 2023, scope 3 ghg emissions reduced across
in 2023, scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions included in
electricity in our manufacturing sites compared our value chain by 11.51%.

– addressing flag emissions by increased
our 2018 baseline level.

deliver a 20% net reduction of ghg emissions in 2023, our projects removed 758 317 tco2e from the
versus the 2018 baseline by 2025, in accordance atmosphere, of which 671 367 tco2e (89%) came from
in march 2023, we increased our renewables
with our net zero plan.

overall agriculture contributes sourcing with a significant investment in a major projects within our value chain and, in accordance
to climate change mainly
with sbti, therefore contributing to our flag target.

targeted interventions across the lifecycle of through emissions of new solar energy project in texas, united states.

tracking the evolution of our ghg footprint carbon dioxide, methane we have removed 86 950 tco2e (11%) via projects in
our products have secured an absolute ghg the 600-hectare solar project, owned and
and nitrous oxide.

with a percentage ghg emissions reduction our sourcing landscapes, through global reforestation
emissions reduction, compared to our 2018 developed by enel north america, will add 208
versus a 2018 baseline enables us to confirm program projects, helping us toward net zero**.

the effectiveness of our operational climate looking at the whole landscape chapter.

both our progress to net zero and the projects
actions and to assess our progress toward our
in addition to our direct investment, nestlé will
and investment across the organization that are
flag ghg emissions
net zero target by 2050.

we monitor our emissions
agriculture contributes to climate change, primarily
the tangible improvements we have made
attributes generated by the solar project’s
using our ghg performance system (gps).

this
through the release of three different gases –
to mitigate climate change since the launch
energy production for 15 years.

the annual ghg
is designed to meet sbti reporting requirements
carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide:
of our net zero roadmap in 2020.

tools and
emissions reduction is expected to be around
and strengthens over time, with consistent
– carbon dioxide (co2) stems from land conversion
methods used to track and visualize the kpi are
126 294 tonnes of co2e.

in indonesia, we are replacing natural gas
we also assess our esg-related investments,
systems, crop decay or food waste residues.

this will save more than
forest, land and agriculture (flag) sector
to ensure that our emissions reductions 20 000 tonnes co2e of scope 1 and 2 emissions
to comply with sbti, we are required to have flag
guidance.

for the 2023 reporting year, we began
are as effective as possible, we refine our per year.

to begin to address the
to categorize the ghg emissions, for ingredients
methodologies according to evolving industry
topic as soon as possible, we had these validated
only for now, by specific gas types.

this increased granularity
submitted our flag and energy/industry targets,
energy consumption 82 779 476 80 131 120 76 824 313
industry (non-flag) emissions, in accordance
includes the emissions data we now request (gigajoules) which were approved by sbti in 2023.

ingredients are the most
from our supply chains, such as in dairy and energy consumed that is 25.3 30.6 35.0
renewable energy (%)
significant category of our emissions and where nestlé aims to reduce absolute scope 3 flag ghg
petcare, replacing the industry averages
energy consumed that was 10.2 6.0 28.0*
most flag emissions occur.

we will continue emissions 50% by 2030 and 75% by 2050 from a
used previously.

supplied from grid electricity (%)
to try to secure reductions in other emissions 2018 baseline year.

scopes 1, 2 and 3 energy/industry ghg emissions by
(scopes 1 and 2)
50% by 2030 and 90% by 2050 from a 2018 baseline
in 2023, scope 1 and 2 emissions have reduced
year.

across our total emissions in scope of sbti,
by 33.19% versus the 2018 baseline, largely as
nestlé remains committed to net zero by 2050.

table of contents on the road to net zero creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 12
total ingredients emissions split by innovation in dairy emissions reductions our scientists also look at how these
greenhouse gas
we source our dairy raw materials in two ways: solutions can be used in combination with
(million tonnes)
– derivative ingredients such as milk powders, other approaches such as the management
whey or lactose come from dairy suppliers.

of the dairy herd, as well as efficient farm
the graph below shows the ghg emissions
– fresh milk is sourced directly from farmers management.

further validated and tested on research farms,
greenhouse gas in co2 equivalent.

carbon
we purchase directly from over 150 000 dairy for their practicability, before considering a
dioxide (co2) emissions accounted for 53% of
farmers in 27 countries.

ch4 emissions
49.3% our overall dairy sourcing strategy is driven the institute works in close collaboration with
have reduced by 15.32% since 2018, co2 by
by the company's dairy climate plan and the external partners including farmers, universities,
of global fleet vehicles
11.89% and n2o by 11.36%.

industry-wide sustainable dairy partnership research organizations, start-ups and industry
switched to lower-
emission options (sdp).

working the dairy methane action alliance to work
13%
46.43
14% with sustainability consultancy anthesis and with industry peers to drive accountability,
electrification in india, with a projected local dairy production offers
35% n2o
13% many ways to reduce ghg
34% local data collection partners, we developed transparency and action in the food industry on
ch4 demand from the group of 7 700 vehicles emissions, including via
34%
and implemented a framework to enable methane emissions.

stacked rail for a trial with a retailer.

we’re supporting our
reduction of 76% in co2e emissions compared
2021 2022 2023
potential climate reduction actions for a dairy network of farmers and suppliers to develop
to diesel-powered journeys.

farm according to its distinct production roadmaps for regenerative agriculture and
flag emissions, the emissions from the system.

we then were able to work with mitigating climate change which could help
changes to recipe formulations to reduce
production of our raw ingredients, represent suppliers to adopt ambitious new roadmaps.

them, their families and their landscapes for
greenhouse gas emissions
50% of the emissions included in our net our teams use the tool with our farmers to generations to come.”
the decarbonization challenge is complex and we
zero roadmap in 2023 (39.46 million tonnes).

create refined bottom-up 2025 to 2030 fresh
have tasked our teams to identify opportunities
more sustainable logistics
these fall within the scope of our flag target milk roadmaps for climate, methane and
across our value chain.

non-flag emissions, regenerative agriculture.

introduced recipe reformulations that maintain
emissions reductions, energy consumption and
the consumption of energy, logistics and fossil
the quality and taste of our products, while
we also established a dedicated team to work warehousing efficiency.

with our operational
fuel-based packaging, represent the remaining
reducing emissions by 0.74 million tonnes.

these fall within
replacing some animal proteins with plant-based
the end of 2023, the scheme was addressing transport, our initiatives to reduce emissions
our energy/industry target, reapproved by sbti
ingredients, we are helping achieve our net
around 49% of our derivatives volume through and increase efficiencies adapt to local
in 2023.

zero commitment and responding to trends in
interventions such as deforestation-free and circumstances.

reducing emissions is one outcome of our low-carbon feed supply chains, optimized diets included the following:
efforts to help advance regenerative food and improving animal well-being.

for more information, see also natural gas-powered trucks to reduce co2e
nido milk and soy, an affordable and nutritious
the nestlé institute of agricultural sciences
the restoring nature, protecting biodiversity and emissions by 20%.

to reduce dairy emissions.

this includes
pollution by up to 96%.

zero emission vehicles emerging markets
calcium – and has the potential to meet demand
initiative.

this will support overall truck
for products with lower carbon footprints.

tonnes of co2e) of the ghg emissions in our net
in 2023, we updated our advocacy priorities in
zero commitment.

highlights of our global
ghg emissions related to packaging are to:
activities in 2023 include:
– use less and better packaging by driving our
five-pillar packaging sustainability strategy.

encouraging them to use energy sources that
– co-founding the industry outcomes-based
are low in ghg emissions.

framework regenerating together, hosted
on the sai (sustainable agriculture initiative)
nespresso’s the positive cup strategy
platform and designed to expand regenerative
the scale of our brands can enable our suppliers
our r&d centers are food loss and waste
agriculture across the world (see more
rethinking recipe and farmers across the value chain to contribute
reformulation to help food loss and waste account for a low
regenerative practices on farms).

reduce ghg emissions.

to our net zero commitment, while engaging
percentage of our emissions but are complex
with consumers.

they accounted for 710 275 tonnes
supporting climate action
approach has ambitious goals to regenerate
of co2e in our 2018 baseline study.

we aim to
– participating in the first private sector panel at
landscapes, empower communities, advance
reduce food loss and waste at every stage of
the united nations forum on forests 18 event.

we make use of agricultural our net zero roadmap outlook
we considered how food and agriculture
presents opportunities
side streams, recover food waste in factories companies can contribute to achieving global and challenges across our
green coffee represented the single largest the projects we have already started will get
complex value chain.

to use as biofuel and work with farmers and
forest goals via ongoing regenerative food
contributor to nespresso’s carbon footprint us close to our 2025 milestone of a 20% net
consumers to minimize waste.

the brand reduction of ghg emissions from 2018 levels.

lists the total weight of waste generated, with a
– signing a call to action for the urgent
is addressing this in part by supporting in 2024, we aim to identify additional projects to
split by the composition of waste types, for our
adoption of an ambitious and legally binding
regenerative agricultural practices.

nestlé also
include reducing the use of carbon-intensive
advocated in support of the eu soil monitoring beyond this, our net zero roadmap includes
fertilizers and via carbon-absorbing plants
total weight of waste generated and
and resilience law.

these
breakdown by composition*
– supporting the emirates declaration further reductions to come from investments in
aim to absorb carbon emissions and increase
(tonnes)
on resilient food systems, sustainable agroforestry, deforestation prevention and new
biodiversity and soil health, complementing the
agriculture and climate action at cop28.

as climate
waste hazardous non-hazardous millions of trees now being planted every year.

composition waste generated waste generated total
– adding our name to calls to action by the impacts accelerate, we will continue to push
2022 2023 2022 2023 2022 2023 advocacy
world economic forum and the we mean hard to address all scopes of our emissions.

biomass 839 3 157 1 414 716 1 027 439 1 415 555 1 030 596 reaching net zero emissions is an economy- business coalition for the world to fast-track
other waste 33 061 9 622 363 331 524 592 396 392 534 214 wide endeavor that relies on creating an enabling the transition to renewables and take other as well as addressing our existing activities,
total 33 900 12 779 1 778 047 1 552 031 1 811 947 1 564 810 environment for rapid and sustained progress.

policy measures to accelerate climate action.

we need to innovate both in our products and
nestlé prioritizes advocacy on climate change in agri-tech, combining our own research and
* 2022 value adjusted from last report due to error in reporting units.

the global standard on responsible climate researchers, start-ups and other partners.

we
lobbying by publishing our 2023 climate will focus on health science, innovation and
our work includes supporting international
advocacy industry associations review.

framework convention on climate change,
as among the 27 corporate climate policy
prioritizing food systems.

lasting impact, not just on climate, but on the these include water stewardship.

agriculture framework sets out specific
as a food and beverage company, we rely on principles and practices to advance regenerative
nature for all our ingredients and we have a agriculture, adapted to local conditions
commitment to achieve net zero emissions and needs.

we take advantage of our reach and scale to
protecting, preserving and restoring nature is participate in international efforts that aim
essential for tackling climate change, enhancing to restore degraded ecosystems.

we
challenges facing agriculture goes beyond complement these initiatives with our efforts
carbon, to help deliver positive outcomes for the to source commodities that are assessed
environment and the people it supports.

deforestation-free.

this includes information on the
vulnerability to climate change impacts.

for more on business risks,
consultancy to understand the biodiversity
please refer to the 2023 nestlé annual review.

supporting nature and biodiversity during 2023, we:
profiles, impacts and dependencies of the land
– supported regenerative landscape initiatives in brazil,
is essential for addressing climate
chile, côte d’ivoire, indonesia, malaysia, mexico, peru where key raw materials in our products grow
and the united kingdom.

soy and sugar were deforestation-free.

by nestlé was one of the founding corporate
nestlé is undertaking work to prepare the
acting systemically, we can help address members of the taskforce on nature-related
business for forthcoming regulatory and
climate change and create a more regenerative financial disclosures (tnfd) and helped shape
voluntary requirements on nature and
food system that will also support more its recommendations ahead of publication in
biodiversity.

our team, business4nature,
company’s impacts and dependencies on
– by 2025, we aim for 20% of our key ingredients and tnfd helped advocate for the passage of
nature, as well as identifying how best to
to be sourced from farmers adopting the eu nature restoration law in the summer
measure and report the nature-related effects
regenerative agricultural practices, and 50% of 2023, and nestlé continues to co-chair the
of our major climate initiatives.

this is in addition to
targets for nature pilot to trial its methodology.

ranked second in terms of performance on
– we aim for 100% assessed deforestation-free
managing deforestation-related risks in the
primary supply chains by 2025 (meat, palm oil,
forest 500 index.

for the suffolk farmers, the aim is
include water quality management,
clear: improve resilience in the face
flood risk mitigation, the resilient
of climate change impacts, protect
supply of crops, ghg emissions businesses and sectors, creating have received guidance on how to any support must be “farmer-led,
biodiversity, regenerate the land and
reductions and improved biodiversity.

table of contents restoring nature, protecting biodiversity creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 17
looking at the to track our progress, we put in place the following kpis:
our objective was to achieve 100% deforestation-free supply chains for meat, palm oil, pulp and paper, soy and sugar by 2022 and we achieved 99.1%
for these raw materials by this date.

we remain committed to working toward 100% for meat, palm oil, pulp and paper, soy and sugar, as well as
whole landscape
toward achieving 100% deforestation-free supply chains for cocoa and coffee by 2025.

deforestation-free in our primary coffee cocoa
supply chains 100% deforestation-free by 2025 100% deforestation-free by 2025
100% deforestation-free
unknown 7.2% unknown 57.7%
assessed from the sky 0.0% assessed from the sky 18.3%
92.8% 42.3%
assessed on 92.8% assessed on 24.0%
the ground the ground
of primary supply of primary supply
chain assessed as traceable to non-very- 0.0% chain assessed as traceable to non-very- 0.0%
deforestation-free high-risk origin deforestation-free high-risk origin
93.4%
kilotonnes 849.1 kilotonnes 337.4
of primary supply
chain assessed as
palm oil sugar
deforestation-free
100% deforestation-free 100% deforestation-free
unknown 4.0% unknown 1.9%
assessed from the sky 89.4% assessed from the sky 42.5%
96.0% 98.1%
unknown 6.5% assessed on 5.9% assessed on 0.7%
the ground the ground
of primary supply of primary supply
assessed from the sky 22.7%
chain assessed as traceable to non-very- 0.7% chain assessed as traceable to non-very- 54.9%
assessed on the ground 23.1% deforestation-free high-risk origin deforestation-free high-risk origin
traceable to non-very-high-risk origin 47.7%
kilotonnes 458.7 kilotonnes 1 650.7
kilotonnes 5 185.2
soy pulp and paper meat
100% deforestation-free 100% deforestation-free 100% deforestation-free
unknown 2% unknown 1.8% unknown 0.1%
assessed from the sky 0.4% assessed from the sky 0.0% assessed from the sky 0.0%
97.9% 98.2% 99.9%
assessed on 12.0% assessed on 17.2% assessed on 0.0%
the ground the ground the ground
of primary supply of primary supply of primary supply
chain assessed as traceable to non-very- 85.6% chain assessed as traceable to non-very- 81.0% chain assessed as traceable to non-very- 99.9%
deforestation-free high-risk origin deforestation-free high-risk origin deforestation-free high-risk origin
kilotonnes 614.1 kilotonnes 1 252.9 kilotonnes 22.2
to support complex ecosystems, a during 2023, we: aim to grow 200 million trees by 2030 sdg contributions
– worked towards 100% deforestation-free primary supply in our supply chain and sourcing landscapes
resilient food system and a just future
chains for meat, palm oil, pulp, paper, soy, sugar, cocoa
trees secured for planting within the year
and coffee.

our global reforestation
ingredients in our supply chain is estimated
in existing: program seeks to conserve and restore land
to account for between 25% and 35% of our
– high carbon stock forests.

and natural ecosystems in our supply chain and
total ingredient emissions.

respecting the rights of indigenous peoples
deforestation-free primary supply chains,
– peatlands of any depth, except where farming and local communities and by promoting
through the implementation of the nestlé
practices protect peat.

and yields, and reduce
the climate is changing.

since 2020, we have been working with experts
temperatures reached an average of 0.41°c account for 40% of the global supply and we
from the ngo earthworm foundation to assess
above pre-industrial levels.

to have an believe this work is important to help support a
our forest footprint and risks for ecosystems
ecosystem impact that can mitigate climate just transition.

halting deforestation and maintaining forests maintain a deforestation-free supply chain of key in colombia.

could avoid emissions of around 3.6 gigatonnes ingredients.

we do this using three approaches:
of carbon dioxide equivalent gases per year
aiming for deforestation-free supply chains,
between 2020 and 2050.

planetary warming below 1.5°c by 2030.

the visibility of upstream supplier tiers may
contribute to the risk of unsustainable land use
in our value chain.

any incidents or concerns
linked to land use, including deforestation, may
potentially lead to supply disruptions, regulatory
action and impacts on our reputation.

for more
on business risks, please refer to the 2023
nestlé annual review.

table of contents looking at the whole landscape creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 19
performance performance is based on the following 2.5 million hectares of key natural ecosystems 92.8%
measures: we begin by mapping the often and the restoration of almost 60 000 hectares,
deforestation-free
of our coffee was
complex and multi-tiered supply chains helping over 60 000 people in these landscapes
by the end of 2023, 93.4% of our primary sourced through the
back to their point of origin.

pulp and paper, soy and sugar were assessed
sustainable quality™
ground risk assessment and, more recently,
as deforestation-free, according to nestlé program in 2023
activities in the palm oil supply chain
real-time satellite monitoring.

the decrease from 99.1% in 2022 is
many of indonesia’s crucial ecosystems are
assessment toolkit informs what we deploy to
driven by two factors: increasing the number of
carbon sinks and home to unique flora and
address deforestation risks with suppliers and
commodities in this indicator and increasing the
fauna.

despite an overall national decrease,
stakeholders, providing fact-based evidence to
types of ingredients covered within our original
deforestation persists in protected areas,
drive real change on the ground.

preventing
and cocoa for which we have been assessing
deforestation improves smallholders’ livelihoods,
our risk mitigation tools include: working
deforestation risks for less time.

resilience among smallholders to provide
sustainable livelihoods and conserve forests;
we remain committed to working toward
we are partnering with forest carbon and our
a farmer planting one of
industry collaboration – collective action; and
achieving and maintaining 100% assessed the millions of coffee, forest
supplier golden agri-resources for large-scale
consensus building.

and fruit tree plantlets,
deforestation-free in our primary supply chains
distributed in support of
wetland forest conservation and restoration in
the nescafé plan 2030.

during 2023, we supported 15 regenerative the project covers more than 22 000 hectares of
landscape initiatives in brazil, chile, côte tropical wetland forest, home to sumatran tigers biodiversity and the productivity of farming forest positive projects in 2023
a decade of testing, investigating and finding
d’ivoire, indonesia, malaysia, mexico, peru and and 20 other rare, threatened or endangered landscapes.

the project aims to prevent fires and agriculture are guided by our longstanding
country program (000s)
solve deforestation on its own.

our reported
initiatives are targeting the conservation of over remove carbon from the atmosphere through partners which include the rainforest alliance,
australia global reforestation program 1 727
vegetation regrowth.

capital in the ketapang
deforestation by funding conservation
district, indonesia.

as of september 2023, habitat for 97 endangered and near-
asset management company lestari
in forest communities of southeast nestlé had contributed to protecting threatened bird and mammal species.

table of contents looking at the whole landscape creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 21
more regenerative context to track our progress, we put in place
the following kpi:
during the cop28 climate conference, more
than 130 world leaders vowed to put sustainable
agriculture and resilient food systems at the heart
progress toward 20% of key ingredients sourced
practices on farms
of their climate plans.

they did this in the context from farmers adopting regenerative agricultural
practices by 2025 and 50% by 2030*
of a human population that could reach 10 billion
by 2050, with agriculture already producing
around a third of ghg emissions.

15.2% in 2023
6.8% in 2022
the global food and farming system has a unique
opportunity to transform – to secure and increase
natural resources, reduce emissions, feed our
growing communities and play a vital and lasting
role in a more predictable and sustainable future.

this establishes a
harmonized and outcomes-based approach to
regenerative agriculture.

regenerative agricultural practices can help
farmers to avoid risks associated with the
degradation of ecosystem services.

regenerative agriculture can play a by the end of 2023, we:
regenerative farming can help reduce ghg
– sourced 15.2% of fresh milk, dairy derivatives, cocoa,
critical role in improving soil health,
green coffee, cereals, soy and vegetables from emissions and contributes to co2 removals.

for
selected suppliers and farmers adopting regenerative more information, see the nestlé agriculture
sequestering carbon and supporting food
agricultural practices*.

it can restore water resources, – reached more than 148 000 coffee farmers in
found in this year’s nestlé annual review.

this allows the calculation of nescafé agronomists, demonstrating positive
individual farms’ emission factors, identifies change, in both regeneration and income.

hotspots and makes it easier for farmers to test
santiago gowland
one of the most effective pathways for farmers
and manage emissions interventions.

the climate and biodiversity crisis, and the
by 2030.

we are taking action based on our
are facing the challenges of climate change,
imperative of poverty alleviation, demands
five pillars: diverse cropping systems and
including increased temperatures and irregular
putting producer benefit at the center of this
livestock integration; biodiversity; collective
rainfall.

through emissions of farms have been reduced by 19% in
raw materials and regions.

for the year 15.2% of our fresh milk, dairy
diseases or drought.

growers reported carbon
initiatives in hungary, italy, poland and the
enhance regenerative agriculture across our to promote the transition to regenerative
sequestration of about 2 000 tonnes co2e, with
united kingdom bring together farmers, experts
supply chain by 2025.

in total, nestlé secured over 180 000
and other crops, of ecosystem services, and also
exploring seaweed
included selected raw material categories tonnes of green coffee from farmer groups using
help establish measures to protect and enhance
in many regions of the world, food production
sourced from industrial suppliers through the regenerative agriculture methods.

their overuse
nestrade procurement division.

included seven kilometers of hedgerows planted
dairy
can negatively affect soil health, biodiversity,
and 16 000 hectares of land worked on using
projects to expand regenerative agriculture and
in brazil, we are water and air, as well as the climate.

purina
* in 2023, the following ingredients are included in the numerator: dairy incentivizing farmers regenerative agricultural practices to deliver soil,
climate practices are happening in all direct-
(fresh milk and dairy derivatives), coffee (excluding blended green coffee and supplying our ninho has brought together a consortium of experts
blue bottle), cocoa, cereals and grains, soy and vegetables.

organic matter and the potential for young farmers in poland
are leading the way toward
carbon removals.

these include automated
farmland dominates the them restore soil health and quantify
soil sampling, digital sensors, or combinations of
the carbon capture potential of their
remote sensing with local ground assessments.

satellites can enhance the data
climate neutral by 2050.

the use of these regenerative
the value of polish agri-food product
the auspices of the world business council
agricultural practices can foster
exports was estimated at usd 47.6
for sustainable development (wbcsd) and
carbon sequestration in the soil and
billion in 2022, a year-on-year growth
regen10.

agricultural practices with outcomes to deliver
as a young and passionate group,
for people, nature and climate.’ we look forward
we sponsored the planting of cover
farmers in poland care about the
to more partnership on this vital topic.

harmonized and comprehensive outcomes-
monitored alongside three weather
based framework for regenerative agriculture
nestlé has partnered with krakow and pest monitoring stations which
will help with measuring progress against
university of agriculture, the helped to optimize decisions and
the cop28 action agenda on regenerative
growers association, agrosimex and further reduce inputs at 28 farms.

total water consumed 2021 2022 2023
total water discharged
good management and restoration of water
total water use reduction
resources has a positive impact on ecosystem
services, as well as on soil health and
39.0 98.0 43.9 97.1 95.6
47.2
biodiversity.

59.0
all our factories, without exception, need water 53.2
48.4
to operate properly and water stress may impact
their production capacity through potential
restrictions.

for more on business risks, please
refer to the 2023 nestlé annual review.

sdg contributions
in 2023, in the context of record during 2023 we worked to:
– reduce water use in nestlé factories, having delivered an
temperatures, the stewardship of water
absolute water use reduction of three million m3 of water,
exceeding our target of six million m3 between 2021 and 2023.

the
nestlé responsible sourcing standard defines
mandatory best practices on water use and
management for all our suppliers.

table of contents water stewardship creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 27
internal viewpoint adrian sym, chief executive officer, aws: given that water scarcity is not only a
“at the alliance for water stewardship, we bring quantitative issue but also a qualitative one,
together stakeholders who are serious about we closely monitor the quality of the water we
solís: preserving the world’s most precious resource.

our members
treated internally applies to 51% of nestlé total
define the aws standard which represents
effluent water, which includes effluents sent to
best practice in water stewardship.

extend their stewardship work to other product
nestlé solís recognized for improving
water is an essential performance
during 2023, we measured the quality of the
lines with the solís brand of tomato sauces, resource for supporting
water stewardship factory standards and the natural environment, water discharged from our factories through the
produced solely at the aws-certified nestlé water use in our factories
communities and
the economy.

we welcome nestlé’s we continuously strive to improve water use in
discharged to the environment'.

in 2023, total water withdrawals
to improve water quality in the areas that supply at nestlé factories were 95.6 million m3 (versus
in 2023, the alliance for water stewardship
quality of effluents treated internally and discharged to
(aws) awarded the solís tomato plant in tomatoes for solís sauces.

solís
(+11.2% versus 2013), showing that business and percentage of water withdrawn in percentage of water consumed in
sources all the tomatoes they need within 50 km (5.0 million m3), from ground water regions with ‘high’ or ‘extremely regions with ‘high’ or ‘extremely
environmental sustainability go hand in hand.” high’ baseline water stress high’ baseline water stress
(58.8 million m3), from produced water
of the plant, meaning the team could work with
(1.4 million m3) and from third-party suppliers
local farmers to implement more water-efficient ignacio rosés
business executive officer, food, nestlé spain
(31.8 million m3).

– total water discharged through 2023 was
36.7% 48.6%
the sustainability journey began in 2013 with (48.4 million m3); our total water consumed
(36.1% in 2022) (51.5% in 2022)
‘solís responsable.’ since then, the project has was (47.2 million m3).

generated a reduction in total water use of 1.4 – quality of effluents treated internally and
million m3, the equivalent of 2 600 people’s daily discharged to the environment (see table).

– water withdrawn in regions with high or
at the same time, there has been an 8% drop extremely high baseline water stress (36.7%).

in pesticide usage and a 6% drop in fertilizer – water consumed in regions with high or
usage, helping to ensure the quality of water in extremely high baseline water stress (48.6%).

– one water-related incident that incurred a
fine or penalty in 2023 as per the carbon
disclosure project (cdp) reporting framework.

session advising farmers
on water management identify opportunities for remediation in several during 2023, nestlé was one of the 17 committee and agriculture working group,
techniques near nestlé’s
of our factory locations.

we expect
our contribution to the pilot will help refine
and improve the method before the official
nestlé waters in action
public launch.

how countries can legislatively safeguard
naleczowianka, degraded water was affecting the quality of we installed a new uv lamp that now improves
essential elements of the human right to water
poland the vystra river, downstream of the municipal the water quality before it leaves the municipal
in worsening climate conditions, and what this
wastewater treatment plant.

herrera del duque, local authorities and stakeholders identified the local team planted trees on the banks to
spain pressures on biodiversity linked to climate reduce evaporation and protect the habitat
change impacts on the local river stream.

of an endangered fish species, enhancing
biodiversity.

ayutthaya, household waste and neglected hyacinth we worked with the youth water guardian
thailand growth was polluting the kanom jeen canal initiative to improve water conservation and
in sena district, affecting local livelihoods quality via cleanup programs along 21 km of the
and biodiversity.

mustapha yousaf, one of
the farmers working with nestlé,
we are also beginning an in-depth study to
most water in farming is used to
commented that this is resulting
quantify the water co-benefits delivered by the
irrigate crops, but conventional
in 30–40% less water use while
existing regenerative agriculture, and nature-
flood irrigation methods often result
increasing yields and reducing the
based solution projects within our nestlé
in 50% water loss.

comprising 10 000 cocoa-farming families in our nestlé found here.

people, nature and climate in nestlé’s sourcing origins.

from biodiversity impacts to water
we work closely with our direct suppliers and country or is traceable back to its origin on a
stress, resource scarcity and soil degradation,
other partners to conduct supply chain mapping farm or group of farms.

all climate.

we have evolved the name to more
our work on responsible sourcing is designed
transparently reflect the breadth of this kpi
to work toward compliance with our human
which measures the performance of our volumes
rights and environmental due diligence
at origin level against the responsible sourcing
standard and the progressive delivery of positive (hredd) and the delivery of positive impacts
impacts on people, nature and climate.

for more on people, nature and climate in nestlé’s
information on the definition of the kpi, please sourcing origins.

these include
levels of traceability may present risks to nestlé,
self-declaration, desk-based assessments
including societal and environmental impacts,
and second- or third-party site audits or identifying the traceability of materials
supply disruptions, regulatory action, loss of
traceability*
assessments, and sustainability certification purchased by nestlé back to their origins
trust and impacts on our reputation.

the tools used to
on business risks, please refer to the 2023
assess compliance depend on the supply chain
nestlé annual review.

market shortages our sourcing requirements for meat, poultry, egg
with our traceability, environmental and social
meant that we were only able to purchase 55% products and dairy.

we are working to meet our commitment to
help prevent future supply issues, we decided to
source 100% cage-free eggs globally, achieving
disclosures on commodities send a strong market signal.

for rspo-certified crude palm oil equivalent to resources and source cage-free eggs when
we have now defined our sustainability ambition 20 times (1 339 751 tonnes) the missing volume available, and remain focused on meeting our
for the rest of the decade.

the publication absorb and retain more ghg emissions.

d’ivoire, our income accelerator program has
empowered more than 10 000 farmers with skills
and knowledge on good agricultural practices
and environmental protection, and has enabled
more children to register in school, to reduce
child labor risks.

table of contents responsible sourcing creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 33
external viewpoint fgn is also aiming for higher efficiency in
the mitigation and adaptation of farming
systems to climate change.

it was
together
a very small project, but it didn’t take long
before we jumped to other vegetables and
to other categories such as cereals or dairy
that face different biodiversity and climate-
related challenges.

appropriate, financial aid to embed practices
the secret to this lasting relationship has been
over the long term.

any
incidents or concerns linked to human rights
violations may potentially lead to impacts on
individuals, regulatory action and impacts on our
* the child labor monitoring and remediation system (clmrs).

for more on business risks, please ** mass balance is ‘a sourcing method that allows for certified and non-certified ingredients to
become mixed during the shipping and manufacturing processes.’ the rainforest alliance
refer to the 2023 nestlé annual review.

*** this kpi tracks our progress on our salient human rights issue: child labor and access to
education.

for more details see our section on child labor risks.

we also work
general counsel, oversees the implementation
operation and development’s (oecd’s)
our global care audit program is our bespoke
with multi-stakeholder organizations, such as
of our salient issue action plans and monitors
guidelines for multinational enterprises.

compliance audit process.

external auditors assess compliance
our human rights framework
implementation of our
with our corporate business principles against
the nestlé human rights framework and roadmap places seven pillars, including human rights.

audits or assessments.

these data are used to guide actions rights, child labor risk prevention and
to join the coffee growing
we seek to both prevent and mitigate risks, also supports the program, has held training
at national, regional, landscape or site levels.

acquisition, business planning and assessing
use data sets, desk-based risk assessments,
i work for swisscontact, an independent non- and mitigating the risks of child labor.

we anticipate a brighter, fairer future
patterns and workforce shortages due to where youth and women play leading roles in
migration.

over the past
table of contents advancing human rights creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 37
by the results of human rights impact and risk sustainable quality™ program is working toward focus on child labor risks
assessments, as well as our strengthened audit, the empowerment of coffee communities, while
based on our global risk assessment, potential
monitoring and grievance processes.

risks of child labor may occur in the supply
chain of some of the raw materials we purchase.

grievance mechanisms
our 10 salient issues are:
nestlé is committed to helping address child
providing rights holders with access to effective
– child labor and access to education.

labor risks alongside efforts to enhance access
grievance mechanisms is a crucial way of
– forced labor and responsible recruitment.

farm business advisors performance
basis and assessing the effectiveness of our
provide technical advice to – gender equity, non-discrimination and
in addition to permanently monitoring this risk,
their clients.

the mechanisms provide insights into
in february 2023, we launched the nestlé salient non-harassment.

we take action against any violations of human
performance on page 67), is well established
across our value chain.

zero tolerance on child labor, forced labor and
piloted different tools with various suppliers
environmental and social plans.

modern slavery.

we have also supported our palm oil to combating child labor, including clauses
plans, ensuring alignment with organizational across our own operations and supply chains,
supplier sime darby plantations to extend the on the minimum age for employment as well
goals and effective resource allocation.

developing tools to assess our suppliers’ due
suara kami toll-free helpline to all their workers in as specific conditions to be met for family
diligence systems and reviewing how different
indonesia and malaysia.

suppliers via independent audits that follow
salient issue action plans across our value chain.

the plans bring together all of
the sedex members ethical trade audit
we have appointed local dedicated human rights
our existing programs in a holistic way across
we also participate in the development of
(smeta) best practice guidance.

these audits
coordinators in priority markets.

these
include requirements related to child labor.

we
child labor risks by helping to improve the
of severe negative impacts through our activities have also been working with industry peers
living incomes of cocoa-farming families.

they are informed and solidaridad to develop a joint grievance
nescafé plan 2030 is tackling child labor and
mechanism in the brazilian coffee supply chain.

forced labor risks, and the nespresso aaa
table of contents advancing human rights creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 38
– our child labor and access to education 3.

addition of countries considered ‘priority’ in “the increasing number of children
action plan, which articulates our strategy relation to one or more of the raw or recycled
having received support over time,
for embedding, assessing, addressing and materials we source, for which we had
combined with the rising number of
reporting on the specific risk of child labor, information available.

children not engaging in activities
follows the approach of the un guiding
together with our partners, we also focus posing a risk of child labor after
principles on business and human rights.

on helping address the complex factors that nestlé's interventions, demonstrates
measures taken as part of the child labor and
contribute to the risk of child labor.

these
the effectiveness of nestlé's clmrs."
access to education action plan
include widespread rural poverty, increasing
as part of our child labor and access to
matthias lange
climate risks and a lack of access to financial
executive director,
education action plan, we have carried out an
services and basic infrastructure such as water, international cocoa initiative
initial global assessment for child labor risks and
healthcare and education.

based on global datasets, such as those
provided by verisk maplecroft, unicef and the
our identification and assessment of risks
us department of labor (dol), and information
indicated that the risk of child labor is
from stakeholders and raw material-specific risk
particularly prevalent in the cocoa sector.

assessments on child labor, we have identified
therefore, we prioritized efforts to mitigate
20 priority countries for the 2023–2025 phase of
these risks in our nestlé cocoa plan supply
our action plan.

the following measures were taken:
– implementing a child labor monitoring and
the priority countries are: brazil, cameroon,
remediation system (clmrs) in our cocoa
chile, colombia, côte d’ivoire, ecuador,
supply chain in côte d’ivoire and ghana, in
ghana, guatemala, honduras, india, indonesia,
collaboration with the international cocoa beyond cocoa, we have taken action to assess child labor monitoring and based on our due diligence approach, we
mexico, nigeria, pakistan, peru, the philippines,
remediation system data points for
initiative (see data points below).

and address child labor risks in our supply have established a new performance indicator
thailand, türkiye, uganda and vietnam.

this means that these volumes türkiye to run summer schools that provide a dedicated due diligence systems, with mass
of countries: households covered by the clmrs to 87 422 108 810
prevent and address child labor risks
are covered under a due diligence system safe space for the children of seasonal migrant balance included.

identification of countries categorized as
children covered by the clmrs to 110 343 178 553
to assess and address child labor risks.

‘priority’ for the combined results of the prevent and address child labor risks
this new indicator will better capture our
traceability types include mass balance, – providing training to coffee farmers and total number of children who 15 035 28 583
verisk maplecroft’s child labor index,
received support
performance across our relevant raw materials
segregation and mixed identity preserved.

mills on child labor risks, and conducting
unicef children’s rights in the workplace
as we deploy our child labor and access to
– for non-certified cocoa coming from brazil, independent monitoring of coffee farms
index, as well as the us dol’s list of goods
education action plan, starting with cocoa
ecuador, mexico and venezuela, assessing during harvesting season in brazil, honduras, 203 401
produced by child labor or forced labor.

we may develop further indicators
and addressing child labor risks in cocoa fields mexico and vietnam.

– taking action in our raw materials and recycled
high or very high risk for child labor and for – helping cocoa farmers to reach a living income packaging supply chains to assess and number of children identified who reported no
70.6%
which we source medium or high volumes through our income accelerator program.

address child labor risks.

longer engaging in activities posing a risk of
child labor (8 974 in 2022)**
from these countries.

this provides us with this aims to help reduce child labor risks and – using leverage and collaboration to collectively volume of cocoa sourced from
all countries covered by the
the scale of the footprint nestlé has in the increase incomes for cocoa-farming families help address widespread, systemic child labor
clmrs or other dedicated due
countries categorized as ‘priority’.

the
aims to help reduce child labor incentives to help close the living
welcomed by the farmers.

table of contents packaging and circularity creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 41
context approach
packaging protects food and beverages, ensures our vision is ambitious: a world in which none as an industry to create a circular economy for
their quality and helps prevent food waste.

to stop leakage to natural environments and innovations to ensure any plastic we do need is
the amount of packaging waste inappropriately landfills, we committed to reduce our use of designed for recycling or reusability.

reducing waste, packaging waste management infrastructure is
guidelines from, for example, the association
managing recovered packaging materials and a major concern for all of us and we collaborate
of plastics recyclers (apr), plastic recyclers
increasing recyclability and circularity are crucial.

european union's packaging and packaging
waste directive is expected to become a
regulation during 2024.

uncertainties at the nestlé institute of packaging sciences,
surrounding the availability and cost of we are exploring innovations for new packaging
pillar 1: pillar 2: pillar 3: pillar 4: pillar 5:
replacement materials, waste management materials.

their work includes
please refer to the 2023 nestlé annual review.

technologies nestlé, as well
removing eliminate infrastructure to
developing new high-performing paper
and innovative as with retail
unnecessary the need for shape a waste-
barriers, integrating more recycled content and
packaging partners and
plastics and disposable free future.

table of contents packaging and circularity creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 42
performance reusable pallet pillar 2: less packaging – reuse and refill
belts in china
replaced plastic in germany, we launched a pilot with a local
we aim for a packaging system where no waste
shrink wrap,
retail partner and the start-up circolution.

compatible with existing deposit return and
we are also trialling fairer collection methods
cleaning infrastructure.

for example, we trialled
several packaging redesigns in latin america.

an extensive campaign
interim co-director, global plastic action
in india, nestlé's social pillar 4: better system – recycle
negotiate a legally binding global treaty to end
impact project hilldaari was launched to educate consumers on partnership, world economic forum
is supporting waste in the united states, nestlé, along with six other
plastic pollution.

the company aims to scale recycling plastic pollution is a systemic challenge
will then need to translate requirements into
designed and harmonized legislation addressing
infrastructure and services in the united states
tangible results on the ground.

the un treaty on plastics pollution.

we work
focuses on streamlining waste management
stakeholders will not be able to resolve on their
to integrate just transition principles into policy
systems and helping to professionalize and
own.

governments will need to work hand-
advocacy, speaking up for the human rights of the global plastic action partnership (gpap)
recognize waste workers.

aims to translate commitments to address
enabled over 550 waste workers across several
break down barriers.

together, they will have
plastic pollution into concrete action.

this new recycling solution is
strategic partner of the world economic forum
since 2019, evaluating their plastic pollution
the result of a partnership between nespresso,
and a leading corporate champion of gpap.

table of contents packaging and circularity creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 44
supporting the rights
of waste workers
waste pickers play an important waste pickers in informal and
cooperative settings play a pivotal role
role in the circularity of
in collecting, sorting and recycling
packaging waste and we support
plastics and packaging waste in many
countries around the globe.

from
them based on the un guiding
waste bins, streets and unregulated
principles on business and
landfills, roughly 20 million waste
human rights.

implement integrated
collection models with
waste-picker cooperatives.

in selected priority countries where we have set up dozens of plastic
we have made progress in areas where we anyone else in our value chain and
waste management is a cause collection projects across asia, africa
have direct influence, such as designing for so we apply the 10 fair circularity
of concern, we are conducting and south america where waste is
recycling systems and supporting infrastructure principles.

waste we sell in those markets.

salient for our waste management attitudes toward open burning of
the wider industry.

the increased
projects are: safety and health at waste’, and ‘methodologies and
the un treaty on plastics pollution has the adoption of the 10 fair circularity
work, child labor and access to assessments for living incomes
potential to transform global plastics waste principles will help to reduce the
education, and forced labor and for informal sector waste workers’,
management after 2025.

decisions on logos, labeling and design and the environment, as well as
for recycling, together with consumer help make life for the waste workers
communications, could also reshape themselves more equitable and safe.

waste picker with government id card in india.

sustainable diets within reach for billions nestlé annual review.

this is what has led us to
raising refine our approach to nutrition and launch our
good for you strategy.

the content now unbiased resources and tools.

a recent example
compliance with our responsible
the long-term cooperation with reaches an additional 15 000 children and has of this is the development of a balanced
marketing policies*
generated over 38 000 views on the ‘nutrition, breakfast toolkit, supported by an unrestricted
nestlé to achieve our goal.”
movement and fun’ youtube channel.

wineke remijnse nestlé policy for implementing the who code** 2022
efad executive director
engaging the culinary profession number of countries with audits on the nestlé policy
our engagement with efad has been ongoing 32
on who code
nestlé professional supports youth training
for several years.

working together, we aim to instances of detected non-compliances with the nestlé
96
policy on who code
initiatives across canada, the united states,
support dietitians in guiding their clients toward
latin america, and central and eastern europe
more balanced and sustainable diets.

it has benefited more than 44 000 children
*** 100% of the audited influencers’ posts were assessed as not appealing to children below 13 years.

following a change in methodology, breaches for posts not targeted to children are also included.

safety certification program
any incident or food safety concern that may (2022: 91.9%)
lead to potential contamination, adulteration, with regular training and information,
gfsi audits in
mislabeling or other quality issues is critical we empower our people to ensure our our facilities
for the group.

for more on
our food safety and quality systems are
business risks, please refer to the 2023 2022 2023
designed to anticipate and address changes
nestlé annual review.

the certification is renewed outlook
scheme and we have adapted our integrated every three years following a strict audit by a
safe food by design
we will continue to reinforce our food safety
risk identification solution (iris) to assess those third-party certification body.

in support of this approach, we
and consumption through a rigorous food
compliance through analytical testing in iso-
implemented and integrated risk identification
climate change impacts will increasingly
safety and quality culture across the company.

solutions and hygiene intelligence tools to enable
affect agricultural practices and we will need
during 2023, our quality assurance centers
in 2023, we strengthened our verification
us to define potential product vulnerabilities for
to adapt and refine our processes to ensure a
performed more than 4.1 million analytical tests
governance model by introducing unannounced
all categories and predict risk more accurately.

we focus on fluctuations and
are constantly looking for ways to strengthen
monitoring and trending are all used to improve
scarcity in sourcing, managing changes in
competencies and leverage lessons learned.

suppliers and food fraud risk.

preparedness using real-time data-driven
we ensure our factories and co-manufacturers
insights while embedding competency building
have the adequate resourcing, competencies,
nestlé’s risk mitigation strategy is for all our
blocks, such as the audit readiness toolkit.

we
consistently monitored and certified by third-
request that our co-manufacturers are certified
table of contents food safety and quality creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 52
our diverse and context to track our progress, we put in place
the following kpi:
diversity, equity and inclusion (de&i) values are
vital to the nestlé business.

we seek a culture
of success that respects diversity, pursues
inclusive culture management positions held by women (%)
equity, enables inclusion and ensures our
people reflect the consumers and communities
46.4% in 2023
we serve.

for
more on business risks, please refer to the 2023
nestlé annual review.

nurturing inclusivity enhances our by the end of 2023:
– all markets had completed diversity, equity and
employees’ well-being and helps us better
inclusion (de&i) self-assessments and set action
plans to continue making progress.

enabling a just and equitable transition.

to make this explicit, in
people with disabilities
2023 we introduced the word ‘equity’ into our
we aim to support the needs of all people
approach to diversity and inclusion.

we are members
to opportunities and to
the group human resources team leads de&i,
enjoy a level playing field
a mandatory training targeting all employees of the valuable 500 to accelerate disability
that considers all of their
offering policies, guidelines, tools and resources
characteristics, unique on unconscious bias and sexual harassment inclusion and a signatory of the ilo global
for all of the markets where we operate.

we continue to publish global business and disability network (gbdn)
enable progress and articulate a common
policies, guidelines and resources that will charter that aims to promote the employment
understanding of our de&i strategy across
strengthen our work in building an equitable of persons with disabilities.

networks and employee resource groups are our diversity, equity and
workplace, and are guided by a gender disability business networks give us access
inclusion values play an
equity action plan.

organizations advocating for workplace
rights framework and roadmap, our recently our business peers and thereby enable us to
discrimination, violence and harassment,
protections in line with local laws.

launched gender equity, non-discrimination accelerate disability inclusion in our workforce.

including gender-based violence and
and non-harassment action plan seeks to the ilo gbdn also supports national level
harassment.

the objective is to create a race and ethnic inclusion
raise awareness and capacity on gender equity, business initiatives on disability inclusion,
workplace where all are respected for who they we strive to advance racial and ethnic inclusion
non-discrimination and non-harassment with particularly in developing countries.

we have
are regardless of gender or other characteristics and are working to eliminate unconscious bias.

to assess, address and report we seek fair representation in management
commencing voluntary self-disclosure in some our leadership agenda through the generation
on potential risks and opportunities on this topic positions of the communities and countries
countries and equal pay analysis, as well as valuable program, which offers the opportunity
at the global level, we have created a specific we serve.

we track progress to eliminate
encouraging our direct suppliers to deliver for rising leaders with a disability to benefit from
action plan with key priorities and actions.

discrimination through self-assessment.

specialist training and mentoring to become a
nestlé is a founding member of the world
diversity,
c-suite leader of tomorrow, while also raising
we also empower our markets and businesses
economic forum’s partnering for racial justice
equity nestlé was a founding signatory of the awareness among today’s senior executives.

pillars at racial and ethnic equity framework, looking
the united nations standards of conduct to
marketplace and community.

we continue to
at how to confront systemic racism in our
nestlé support the business community in tackling
implement leadership, fairness, accountability
our de&i work is focused on four pillars,
organizations and within the communities where
discrimination against lesbian, gay, bi, trans and
and community advocacy on gender equity
connected and underpinned by the generations
underpinned we operate.

for more on this subject, see the
as part of our gender equity, non-discrimination guidelines and reporting systems to reinforce
recognize that our de&i pillars can intersect, lgbtqi+ opportunities for young people chapter.

and non-harassment action plan.

to create impact, our market and market our products in a more inclusive way,
brand-led activities are calibrated according we launched a brand communication guideline
nestlé purchased
1 009 million
together to to local context and regulations, in line with related to diversity, equity and inclusion.

assessments evaluating the maturity of their workplace discrimination, sexual harassment
women in coffee
implementation of de&i initiatives, programs prevention and unconscious bias.

had completed unconscious bias training and
growing seasons used to mean hard times.

approximately 94% had completed sexual
in february 2023, we published the nestlé
starting in 2019, kahawatu helped them train harassment prevention training.

we are proud
salient issue action plan for gender equity,
members in tailoring and traditional basket of our progress to date but recognize that more
robinah najjingo
non-discrimination and non-harassment.

the gender balance
since 2016, nestlé has been working
and training from kahawatu, the cooperative action plan contributes to the nestlé human we have long-standing efforts focused on
with the kahawatu foundation to help
has set up a village savings and loan association rights framework and roadmap, which advancing gender equality, with clearly defined
empower female coffee growers in our (vsla).

guidance, eliminating bias and offering sexual
robinah najjingo, about the work she is buying more coffee trees.

we will continue to be vigilant as new standards harassment prevention training.

we want to enable women to access what we and a global guidance for providing support
review our progress, and identify concrete
call ‘tuvemubekene’, meaning to ‘get out of to employee victims of domestic violence or
actions to close gaps.

abuse.

boosting systems are built on fairness and equity, with
republic, ecuador, the philippines, south africa
a network that has reached 100 000 farmers
women’s earnings and financial literacy is one of equal pay as one of the pillars.

and the united kingdom and ireland markets,
across burundi, rwanda and uganda and has
the best ways to promote gender equity.

table of contents our diverse and inclusive culture creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 55
bloomberg gender-equality index kpis we conduct annual global reviews to champion people with disabilities in 2023, we also launched new employee outlook
leadership 2022 2023 equal pay for equal work and eliminate any notable achievements in 2023 include resource groups in various markets – including
achieving true and lasting inclusion is a journey.

percentage of women on 35.7% 33.3%
we will continue to drive progress across our
company board
review was completed in 2023 and no country- as part of our nestlé needs youth program.

we comply with disclosures on equal around 100 staff with hearing impairments.

executive officers against discrimination, violence and harassment external recognition in 2023 lgbtq+ 2023 certification from hrc equidad
chief diversity officer (cdo) yes yes at work across all markets.

discrimination, nestlé us and nestlé purina petcare received mx, a human rights campaign foundation.

violence and harassment at work are
the highest possible score of 100% in the 2023
talent pipeline 2022 2023
race and ethnicity
incompatible with the nestlé purpose and values,
disability equality index of the best places
percentage of women in 45.3% 46.4%
we are proud that 85.7% of the senior executive
corporate business principles, as well as with
total management to work, an initiative from the american
leaders (management committee positions) in
the nestlé leadership framework behaviors.

2023, nestlé brazil launched the ônix program
percentage of women in 43.7% 47.0% work environment and standards to prevent any
middle management
form of discrimination, violence and harassment to accelerate the professional growth, skills and
percentage of women in 39.1% 38.9% at work.

the market also became a founding
we are creating a more inclusive workplace
percentage of women in 38.6% 39.8%
total workforce we have also recently launched our first global so that everyone can bring their full self to member of the mover coalition to address
guidance for menopause at work to provide racial inequity.

employee resource groups yes yes
for women
mexico on a list of the 12 most diverse,
unconscious bias training yes yes equitable and inclusive companies.

annual anti-sexual yes yes
harassment training
* the number of board committees chaired by a woman.

career
23 804
fairs, educational webinars,
failure to provide appealing opportunities for
e-learning programs) that focus
nestlé employees hired under
younger generations could have a detrimental on upskilling young people and
30 years old, unlimited and
making them more employable
effect on both the quality and quantity of the temporary contracts
(1 415 687 in 2022)
talent pipeline within the company.

please refer to the 2023 nestlé annual review.

help 10 million young people gain access to perspectives and use our
knowledge and expertise, while supporting
brand equity to generate
economic opportunities by 2030.

the seminars
we are embracing young people’s diverse
complement students’ university studies with
perspectives and helping them turn their ideas
the goal of closing the gap between academic
into viable businesses that work in harmony
work and the application of science in real-
with the planet.

we use our brand equity to
last four years.

– part of the
could sustainability be the factor
900 proposals from 17 countries covering global nestlé needs youth initiative –
outlook anthony agueda is now primed for a career
equality and social inclusion, climate action and that keeps them interested?

realities of resource scarcity and a
over my resumé and taught me a lot
to engage the imaginations of young people on
changing climate, we need more
about sustainability in dairy.”
“by investing in me and giving me
specific business and sustainability goals.

table of contents opportunities for young people creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 59
an employer context to track our progress, we put in place
the following kpis:
for many, 2023 was defined by extreme weather
events, a persistent cost of living crisis and the
0.66 recordable illness rate per million hours worked
impacts of conflicts.

candidates
seek work built around shared values, that
address topics such as the environment and
social equity.

during the recruitment process there is a greater
personalization in meeting the needs of potential
employees and in how roles are defined.

2021 2022 2023
our ability to attract, develop and retain a
1.17 recordable injury rate per million hours worked
diverse range of skilled people is critical to being
competitive and fostering growth.

failure to comply with local health and safety
regulations and/or nurture safe, healthy
workplaces may lead to injuries or fatalities,
regulatory action and impacts on our reputation.

for more on business risks, please refer to the
2023 nestlé annual review.

total number of employees asia, oceania and 58 304 3 781
by employment contract africa including we measure and review the progress of our
bilyana georgieva-voeva
(by zone) middle east (aoa)
group employee relations and
employee health and well-being initiatives using
europe (eur) 77 222 6 975 employee health manager.

while externally,
table of contents an employer of choice creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 61
to assess, address and report on the risks and safety
proactive social social leadership in employee
opportunities of this topic at a global level, we we focus on the highest risks and strive to
employee relations dialogue performance employee relations engagement and
have issued the safety and health at work ensure the most exacting safety standards
well-being
action plan, with key priorities and actions.

foundations: getting the essentials right on
commitment and actions to comply with the
health assistance, reporting, crisis management
lsrs and nestlé safety standards.

our health community with measurement tools speak up, if they recognize a situation as being at a global level, we engage with the at a regional level, we have established a
and the expertise of our employee health and unsafe.

2020, monthly meetings are organized with the
working groups on social sustainability and
– upholding our employees’ freedom
nestlé european works council, including topics
gender equity.

our safety kpis include:
affected by cancer
skills initiative to provide nestlé employees
– recordable injury rate per million
the my health numbers program monitors our in january, we signed the #workingwithcancer
with a digital skills baseline, data literacy,
hours worked.

we now have 20 000 users, across two campaigns each year,
engaging employees in
exams, was launched and trialled in switzerland for employees and their families affected by
20 markets, six categories and two global a wide range of physical,
by the end of 2023, the roadmap was
mental and financial well- in 2023, with positive feedback.

table of contents an employer of choice creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 63
we continue to strengthen our safety culture outlook
toward zero harm, with people at the center
we will continue to implement our safety and
of everything we do, by executing our safety
health at work action plan across all markets.

the strategy targets our highest
the plan includes strengthening our safety
risks – machinery safety, materials handling and
culture in the context of our zero-harm ambition.

we continue to update our rewards and benefits
employees having
access to my health – the nestlé policy against discrimination, packages to meet the needs of our multinational
numbers program violence and harassment was implemented in nestlé continues to pioneer the use of virtual workforce.

the lifestyle spending account benefit for
3 885
expanded our catalogue of virtual reality
– the nestlé global guidance for supporting employees in north america, offering funds for
views of health modules for our markets, focusing on lsrs,
employee victims of domestic violence was flexible spending to support well-being.

the fatality occurred at one
scheme, providing sales teams with low-carbon
measures for employees working with cancer.

the fatal accident
means of transport.

investigation team to establish the root causes.

injuries, a 5% reduction compared with 2022,
monitor the economies where we have facilities
and our group recordable injury rate per million
to ensure that our teams' pay and benefits are
hours worked was 1.17.

it covers
for more on business risks, please refer to the key areas of employee behavior, including
2023 nestlé annual review.

integrity, compliance with laws, conflicts of
interests, antitrust and fair dealing, bribery and
corruption.

the code also sets out expectations
on discrimination and harassment and
accurate reporting and accounting.

the nestlé responsible sourcing standard
includes clear obligations for our suppliers
in relation to business behaviors and ethics,
for nestlé to remain successful in the long term, we must by the end of 2023:
– 194 care audits were which we monitor through formal due diligence
continue to earn and retain the trust of our employees,
performed at our sites.

compliance governance and culture employees and any external stakeholders
our senior management is committed to with the opportunity to raise non-compliance
driving a strong culture of business ethics and concerns.

our channel can be accessed via corporate
policies, standards and procedures define the websites, qr code and web form or through a
desired behaviors and are supported by robust phone line.

they also reinforce a speak up
our human rights framework and roadmap
culture, where any potential non-compliance
provide a comprehensive approach for
incident may be reported (see the performance
assessing and developing preventive and
section of this chapter).

closing gaps
helps promote a responsible mindset
we carry out continuous risk assessments to
and reinforces our ethics and compliance
define the priorities and focus areas of our
requirements.

monitoring and reporting
automated and universal systems
through our care audit program, we assess
and processes
compliance in all nestlé operated sites.

we implement a comprehensive compliance audit network.

performance non-compliance concerns raised through
we believe advertising must be conducted in speak up by category
speak up is an accessible grievance mechanism
a responsible, non-intrusive and ethical way messages received through messages messages
the new frontier tool to capture complaints and feedback from
speak up system received substantiated
and should reflect the evolving needs and
employees and any external stakeholders.

it
abuse of power and/or mobbing/bullying 768 227
expectations of people and society.

of ethics and helps enable a compliance culture and daily
unfair treatment 565 68
adherence to the values of our corporate
data-driven marketing has become key,
labor practice 249 69
data in digital business principles.

helping brands reach consumers with the right
harassment (excluding sexual harassment) 214 44
messages at the right time.

it offers personalized
every allegation reported through speak up fraud (misappropriation or misconduct in 131 43
advertising experiences, with increased engagement and accounting/financial statement)
is professionally and confidentially handled.

but consumers are safety and health 88 21
a continued increase in awareness of speak up
increasingly concerned about how their data
violation of laws/regulations 104 27
led to an increase in the volume of messages
are used and shared for advertising purposes,
gifts, families and relatives, conflicts of interest 109 30
received in 2023.

the number of substantiated
claiming they feel ‘overwhelmed’ by the sense
cases has also increased compared to 2022.

bribery and corruption 47 5*
of being observed in the name of advertising.

violence and discrimination 172 53
gabrielle robitaille
they are calling for more transparency and
senior digital policy manager, in 2023, we received 2 874 messages on
sexual harassment 104 29
world federation of advertisers (wfa) more control over their advertising experience
non-compliance allegations and compliance-
confidential information, privacy policy (data 51 18
as a result.

of the cases investigated privacy, trade secrets, intellectual property)
how digital advertising is responding to and closed, 691 messages were substantiated.

15 service providers’ contracts were terminated.

human rights (child labor, forced labor and 1 1
new restrictions on what data can be used for
modern slavery risks)
advertising, over concerns that the ad-funding
our global kpis on 'total messages received,
according to our recent research, 90% of chief environmental impact 8 1
business model undermines fundamental
technology is connecting closed and substantiated through speak up
marketing officers now view the ethics of how economic sanctions 2 0
nestlé employees to
rights online.

brands today are expected to make sure their non-compliance with who code 7 4
of advertisers (wfa) extremely interesting.

we
marketing activities do not contribute to the executive board member/senior managers 0 0
have a role to play in helping to ensure that the in switzerland
unlawful exploitation of user data, perpetuate
interests of consumers are protected, which is a
bias or fund harmful content or disinformation.

total non-compliance concerns raised: 2475
communicate with consumers in fun, engaging
578 1 758
and innovative ways.

2022
total non-compliance concerns raised: 2 516
businesses today are expected to deliver, 691 2 341
60% 2023
total non-compliance concerns raised: 2 874
not only on financial performance but also
digital advertising accounts for over
demonstrate how they are making a positive
60% of global advertising spend
contribution to society and this extends to today, up from 15% 10 years ago
table of contents the foundations of ethical business creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 67
data protection and privacy employees checking training care social audits
the kitkat final product
we continuously monitor and respond to in dubai.

to help strengthen our compliance culture 2023 was the last year of the latest care cycle
changes to legislation in all the markets where and provide updates, we continue to promote which began in 2021, with 194 care audits
we operate.

our
nestlé privacy standard that underlines our took more than 970 000 e-modules on topics care program for the upcoming 2024–2026
commitment to respect privacy and sets out the including antitrust, compliance, human care cycle has been reinforced and enhanced,
standards for how we process personal data rights, security, sexual harassment and the particularly in assessing human rights in
of nestlé’s consumers, employees, customers, nestlé corporate business principles.

suppliers, service providers and others in also launched new mandatory training for a
the review content is based on well-established
our value chain.

this also includes putting in selected audience on transacting ethically
social auditing methodologies, the fair labor
place safeguards around new technologies and responsibly, with a focus on anti-money-
association (fla) code of conduct and enriched
and emerging applications we use, such as ai laundering, and recommended a course on
with requirements specific to nestlé.

the wide
or genai, to ensure the safety and security of anti-bribery and corruption.

the standard
and experiences that reflect our values and how forced labor and responsible recruitment, and
has been updated with our commitment to
they support a culture of business ethics.

not collect personal data from minors under
720 leaders, including nestlé executive board all our operational sites receive a business
the age of 18 for the specific purposes of
members, participated in various workshop integrity review through the care program that
marketing communications.

assesses bribery and corruption prevention and
during 2023, we continued to implement our training activities.

contributions
salient issue action plan on data protection
our swiss organization made chf 225 000 in
care audits
and privacy, mitigating risks through vendors,
political contributions in 2023.

we have also
locations covered by care audits 379 389 440
responded to ensure our compliance with new communications
care audits carried out 247 264 194
data protection laws.

this includes the revised during 2023, to reinforce our culture and in 2023, over 720
leaders participated in
care audit improvement opportunities identified 333 511 298
federal data protection act in switzerland and share training and learning opportunities we values-based leadership
care audit gaps closed 161 283 186 workshops worldwide.

implemented a dynamic calendar of compliance
the number of data breaches notified to the communications.

topics included anti-bribery
relevant authorities and affected individuals and corruption, anti-money-laundering and
totaled eight in 2023.

to reinforce
our commitment on preventing retaliation,
we conducted activities on international
whistleblower day.

table of contents the foundations of ethical business creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 68
internal viewpoint
how care audits
in france support
vulnerable workers
subsidiaries, contractors and
lydia meziani suppliers in contractual or non-
legal director, compliance, ethics
contractual relationships.

nestlé france has been helping to
protect the human rights of these
there are estimated to be workers and others through its care
team performs care audit
review in côte d’ivoire.

living in france and they can
looking ahead, business ethics and during 2024, we will continue to build on our
be vulnerable to human rights
we have implemented the care
compliance will continue to serve as a key strong foundations and to rapidly respond to
audit program leveraging three
pillar for sustainable business growth and a and address the constantly changing regulatory abuses.

we foresee in-person audits bring a human face
as cleaners, delivery drivers, in
to our due diligence process.

each year we review and reinforce our needing to strengthen our third-party risk
construction or in hospitality – has been rolled out across our 18
compliance management system to ensure management and ensure our mandatory
production sites, head offices and our
a risk-based approach.

this reflects external training and communication campaigns and may experience forced labor offers a vital channel to report and
nespresso boutiques in france.

we will also be responding to
review.

these include suspected
situations including having their
increasing regulatory requirements, as well forthcoming regulations on esg matters and
human rights violations.

nestlé can
thanks to in-person audits conducted
as internal factors and insights provided by non-financial reporting.

wages and permits withheld.

investigate these in more detail, to
by external auditors, care brings
processes and tools.

care and its audits have helped
on human rights and environmental care gives a voice to those who need
people better understand what their
due diligence, including that of it the most.

rights are in the workplace and
table of contents the foundations of ethical business creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 69
community disaster relief community life
we help our communities when disasters strike as well as our international work, we have
and in the recovery phase, through dedicated established a strong community program in the
front-line support and assistance via global or swiss region where nestlé was founded.

– in conflict-affected areas of the middle east,
we are working through local partners to
provide assistance to those in need.

forward-looking statements
and joint ventures and suppliers unless assurance of the accuracy, reliability and regenerative agricultural practices (%).

our environmental data objectivity of the information relating to – total weight of waste generated in tonnes (with petcare) (%).

the report reflects the company’s
performance in the calendar
acquisitions that occurred after 31 december, disclosures included in this report, and that of the waste.

the – recordable injury rate per million – sales with health star rating – 3.5 and data and information available at the time
methodology for esg key performance assurance process was conducted in line with hours worked.

limitations, exclusions and the bureau veritas’ – total messages substantiated through – total direct output of chemical oxygen
to ensure the accuracy and reliability of
organizations, environmental, independent opinion can be found at speak up system.

the nestlé annual review provides an overview www.nestle.com/assurance-statement.

subject to measurement uncertainties
and markets where we operate, as well as any in addition, we engaged ey to provide – fssc certified manufacturing and r&d units – number of countries with audits on the nestlé
customers and suppliers.

– instances of detected non-compliances
measurement.

– net reduction of greenhouse gas (ghg) training provided to workers in the
may also vary.

emissions (co2e) vs.

this assurance engagement was performed
or information obtained from external
for investors, we also provide an overview reporting frameworks – gross direct (scope 1) ghg emissions (co2e).

this report contains
of activity related to our major material this report has been produced with reference – gross market-based indirect (scope 2) ghg employment contract (permanent and on assurance engagements (isae 3000) to
forward-looking statements regarding
issues in our annual review at to the global reporting initiative (gri) emissions (co2e).

these statements
also applied the sustainability accounting emissions (co2e).

– total number of employees by employment be found at www.nestle.com/sites/default/
this could cause actual results to differ
forum stakeholder capitalism metrics.

our full gri content index assessed as deforestation-free (%).

due diligence systems, with mass balance as part of this engagement, ey reviewed
in circumstances, assumptions not
and sasb index can be downloaded here.

information required pursuant to article 964b co sections of the 2023 nestlé creating shared value and sustainability report / nestlé 2023 annual review1 reference2
description of the business model
our business model and progress against commitments page 3
2023 annual review cover flap, page 9
environmental matters (including co2 goals)
indicator unit 2023
our business model and progress against commitments page 3
on the road to net zero page 7
% net reduction of ghg emissions vs.

2018 baseline % 13.58
gross direct (scope 1) ghg emissions (co2e) million tonnes 3.16
gross market-based indirect (scope 2) ghg emissions (co2e) million tonnes 0.31
gross other indirect (scope 3) ghg emissions (co2e) million tonnes 84.08
energy consumption in our factories gj 76 824 313
total weight of waste generated tonnes 1 564 810
hazardous waste generated – biomass tonnes 3 157
non-hazardous waste generated – biomass tonnes 1 027 439
hazardous waste generated – other waste tonnes 9 622
non-hazardous waste generated – other waste tonnes 524 592
restoring nature, protecting biodiversity page 15
primary supply chains for meat, palm oil, pulp and paper, soy % 93.4 looking at the whole landscape page 18
and sugar, coffee and cocoa assessed as deforestation-free
more regenerative practices on farms page 22
key ingredients sourced from farmers adopting regenerative % 15.2
agricultural practices
1 the sections referenced in the index with respect to a particular non-financial matter pursuant to article 964b co primarily contain disclosures relating to such non-financial matter.

we note, however, that the disclosures contained in such sections may also be
relevant to other non-financial matters pursuant to article 964b co.

disclosures on the business model, policies, effectiveness of measures, main risks, and performance indicators can be found in the relevant sections of each topic.

table of contents statutory non-financial matter report index (article 964b co) creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 72
information required pursuant to article 964b co sections of the 2023 nestlé creating shared value and sustainability report / nestlé 2023 annual review1 reference2
environmental matters (including co2 goals) – (continued)
indicator unit 2023
water stewardship page 26
water use reduction in factories million 3.00
cubic meters
total direct output cod load discharged to the environment tonnes 1 911
aggregated annual chemical oxygen demand concentration mgo2/l 81
responsible sourcing page 31
% of key ingredient volumes to be responsibly sourced % 36.2
packaging and circularity page 41
plastic packaging designed for recycling % 83.5
total weight of packaging million tonnes 3.4
virgin plastic reduction versus 2018 baseline % 14.9
2023 annual review pages 13, 27
social matters
indicator unit 2023
our material topics page 5
stakeholder engagement page 6
supporting balanced and sustainable diets page 46
number of servings of total products with micronutrient billions 205.8
fortification (mnf)
net sales from products with a health star rating of 3.5 and % 38
above – excluding petcare
net sales from products with a health star rating of between % 20
1.5 and 3.5 – excluding petcare
net sales from products with a health star rating of less than % 21
1.5 – excluding petcare
net sales from specialized nutrition products – excluding petcare % 21
global nns covered by the assessment – excluding petcare % 76
net sales from products with a health star rating of 3.5 and % 31
above – including petcare
net sales from products with a health star rating of between % 16
1.5 and 3.5 – including petcare
net sales from products with a health star rating of less than % 17
1.5 – including petcare
net sales from specialized nutrition products – including petcare % 36
global nns covered by the assessment – including petcare % 95
1 the sections referenced in the index with respect to a particular non-financial matter pursuant to article 964b co primarily contain disclosures relating to such non-financial matter.

we note, however, that the disclosures contained in such sections may also be
relevant to other non-financial matters pursuant to article 964b co.

disclosures on the business model, policies, effectiveness of measures, main risks, and performance indicators can be found in the relevant sections of each topic.

table of contents statutory non-financial matter report index (article 964b co) creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 73
information required pursuant to article 964b co sections of the 2023 nestlé creating shared value and sustainability report / nestlé 2023 annual review1 reference2
social matters (continued)
indicator unit 2023
number of servings of affordable nutrition with billions 127.6
micronutrient fortification (mnf)
food safety and quality page 51
manufacturing and r&d sites certified to fssc22000 – a % 98.4
program recognized by the global food safety initiative (gfsi)
opportunities for young people page 57
the foundations of ethical business page 65
number of countries with audits on the nestlé policy on who code number 32
instances of detected non-compliances with the nestlé policy number 96
on who code
2023 annual review pages 5, 13, 22
employee related matters
indicator unit 2023
advancing human rights page 35
our diverse and inclusive culture page 53
% of management positions held by women % 46.4
opportunities for young people page 57
young people around the world with access to economic millions 7.7
opportunities since 2017
an employer of choice page 60
recordable injury rate per million hours worked number 1.17
total recordable fatalities from injuries number 1
total irreversible injuries number 10
average hours of technical or vocational training provided hours 15.1
to workers in the company's operations
number of employees number 270 000
the foundations of ethical business page 65
2023 annual review page 4
1 the sections referenced in the index with respect to a particular non-financial matter pursuant to article 964b co primarily contain disclosures relating to such non-financial matter.

we note, however, that the disclosures contained in such sections may also be
relevant to other non-financial matters pursuant to article 964b co.

disclosures on the business model, policies, effectiveness of measures, main risks, and performance indicators can be found in the relevant sections of each topic.

table of contents statutory non-financial matter report index (article 964b co) creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 74
information required pursuant to article 964b co sections of the 2023 nestlé creating shared value and sustainability report / nestlé 2023 annual review1 reference2
respect for human rights
indicator unit 2023
advancing human rights page 35
volume of cocoa sourced from all countries covered by the % 70.6
clmrs or other dedicated due diligence systems, with mass
balance included
packaging and circularity page 41
the foundations of ethical business page 65
2023 annual review page 29
combating corruption
indicator unit 2023
governance page 4
on the road to net zero page 7
the foundations of ethical business page 65
total messages received through speak up system number 2 874
total cases substantiated through speak up system number 691
total messages closed through speak up system number 2 341
2023 annual review page 62
material risks
2023 annual review, principal risks and uncertainties page 50
in addition, material risks relevant to a specific non-financial matter for which information is required to be disclosed pursuant
to article 964b of the co are included in the sections referenced in this index with respect to such specific non-financial matter.

reference to national, european or international regulations
about this report page 71
tcfd index page 77
global reporting initiative index gri and sasb indexes 2023
sasb index gri and sasb indexes 2023
in each case together with the references included in the above indices
coverage of subsidiaries
about this report page 71
1 the sections referenced in the index with respect to a particular non-financial matter pursuant to article 964b co primarily contain disclosures relating to such non-financial matter.

we note, however, that the disclosures contained in such sections may also be
relevant to other non-financial matters pursuant to article 964b co.

disclosures on the business model, policies, effectiveness of measures, main risks, and performance indicators can be found in the relevant sections of each topic.

table of contents statutory non-financial matter report index (article 964b co) creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 75
nestlé's report pursuant to article 964k
of the swiss code of obligations and
the ordinance promulgated thereunder
regarding child labor1
the above-mentioned provisions of swiss law require nestlé s.a.

nestlé's child labor report consists of the information contained in the following documents2:
1.

nestlé's salient issue action plan: child labor and access to education, which is available here
6.

nestlé's human rights policy: which is available here
1 ordinance on due diligence and transparency in relation to minerals and metals from conflict-affected areas and child labor (ddtro) of 3 december 2021.

table of contents child labor reporting index creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 76
tcfd index
disclosure in csv and
sustainability report 2023 summary of our alignment with the task force on climate-related financial disclosures (tcfd)
governance
board’s oversight page 4 oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities is embedded at the highest level.

the board has oversight of climate-related matters and monitors progress toward related goals.

strategy
climate-related risks and opportunities pages 9 to 19 climate change is considered a material risk for nestlé.

within our enterprise risk management framework, we conduct an annual assessment of climate change risks and review the
strategy and plans to mitigate them.

impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities pages 9 to 11
our assessment establishes:
resilience of the organization’s strategy pages 9 to 11
– transition risks: we have assessed transition risks to 2030, based on exposure levels from low-, intermediate- and high-emission pathways.

risk management – physical risks: changing temperatures and weather extremes can affect the quality and availability of key raw materials through lower and variable yields, as well as shifts in the
regions suitable for cultivation.

for 12 key ingredients covering 90% of our spend, we estimated the yield change in 2040 versus today in a ‘steady-state', intermediate climate scenario
processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks pages 9 to 11
(+2 to 3 °c by 2100), discounting the unpredictable impacts of extreme events.

processes for managing climate-related risks pages 9 to 11
nestlé is well positioned to implement nature-based solutions for less resource-intense and more resilient food production, as it has direct access to more than 500 000 farmers.

one
integration into the organization’s overall risk management pages 9 to 11 significant example is nescafé plan 2030, which aims to help drive regenerative agriculture, reduce ghg emissions and improve farmers’ livelihoods.

targets
targets used to manage climate-related risks, opportunities pages 7 and 8 we review our net zero roadmap for achieving planned ghg emissions reductions for 2025 and 2030 annually to validate that our activities are keeping us on the path to net zero and are
and performance helping mitigate and adapt to climate risk throughout our value chain.

in 2023, we used the following indicator for the first time: net reduction of ghg emissions vs.

table of contents tcfd index creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 77
unit 20201 20211 2022 2023 related commitment
metrics
net reduction of ghg emission vs.

2018 baseline2 % n/a3 n/a3 n/a3 13.58
gross direct (scope 1) ghg emissions (co2e) million tonnes 3.314 3.384 3.274 3.16
gross market-based indirect (scope 2) ghg emissions (co2e) million tonnes 1.624 1.444 0.744 0.31
gross other indirect (scope 3) ghg emissions (co2e)5 million tonnes 99.434 98.754 93.794 84.08
total (scopes 1, 2 & 3) ghg emissions (co2e)5 million tonnes 104.354 103.584 97.804 87.54
key ingredients responsibly sourced6 % 16.3 22.0 36.2
our net zero roadmap to reduce nestlé’s in scope emissions:
primary supply chains for meat, palm oil, pulp and paper, soy and sugar assessed 100% % 90.0 97.2 99.1 97.9
– by 20% by 2025 compared to 2018 baseline
deforestation-free by 2022
– by 50% by 2030 compared to 2018 baseline
primary supply chains for coffee and cocoa, meat, palm oil, pulp and paper, soy and sugar % n/a n/a n/a 93.4 – to be net zero by 2050
assessed 100% deforestation-free by 2025
key ingredients sourced from farmers adopting regenerative agricultural practices7 % 6.8 15.2
renewable electricity sourced in our manufacturing sites at year end % 50.5 63.7 78.4 91.9
total energy consumed in our factories gj 81 385 568 82 779 476 80 131 120 76 824 313
energy consumed in factories that is renewable energy % 23.1 25.3 30.6 35.0
energy consumed in factories that was supplied from grid electricity8 % 12.2 10.2 6.0 28.08
virgin plastic reduction versus 2018 baseline % 4.0 8.1 10.5 14.9 part of our sustainable packaging strategy, we are committed to 33%
virgin plastic reduction by 2025 compared to 2018.

2 covers emissions related to our net zero commitment.

4 restated due to acquisitions, divestitures, emissions factor restatements and adjusted scope.

5 includes emissions not in scope for net zero roadmap.

this kpi measures the performance of volumes at origin level against the requirements of the nestlé responsible sourcing standard
and the progressive delivery of positive impacts on people, nature and climate in nestlé’s sourcing origins.

indicator unit 2020 2021 2022 2023 gri index sasb index notes on the data
on the road to net zero
net reduction of ghg emissions vs.

gross direct (scope 1) ghg emissions (co2e) million tonnes 3.311 3.381 3.271 3.16 305-1/a
gross market-based indirect (scope 2) ghg emissions (co2e) million tonnes 1.621 1.441 0.741 0.31 305-2/b
2020, 2021 and 2022 restated due to acquisitions, divestitures,
emissions factor restatements and adjusted scope.

gross other indirect (scope 3) ghg emissions (co2e) million tonnes 99.431 98.751 93.791 84.08 305-3/a
total (scope 1+2+3) ghg emissions (co2e) million tonnes 104.351 103.581 97.801 87.54
renewable electricity sourced in our manufacturing sites at year end % 50.5 63.7 78.4 91.9
global fleet of vehicles switched to lower emission options % 17.6 27.2 41.0 49.3
co2e removals delivered for the reporting year million tonnes n/a n/a 0.76
reductions of ingredients' emissions by ghg
carbon dioxide (co2) % 11.89 305-5/b
methane (ch4) % 15.32 305-5/b
nitrous oxide (n2o) % 11.36 305-5/b
energy management
energy consumption in factories gj 81 385 568 82 779 476 80 131 120 76 824 313 302-1/e fb-pf-130a.1
energy consumed that was supplied from grid electricity in factories % 12.2 10.2 6.0 28.0 fb-pf-130a.1
energy consumed that is renewable energy in factories % 23.1 25.3 30.6 35.0 fb-pf-130a.1
1 restated due to acquisitions, divestitures, emissions factor restatements and adjusted scope.

table of contents nestlé's 2023 csv and sustainability kpis creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 79
indicator unit 2020 2021 2022 2023 gri index sasb index notes on the data
on the road to net zero (continued)
weight of waste generated
total weight of waste generated tonnes 1 811 947 1 564 810 306-3/a
hazardous waste generated – biomass tonnes 839 3 157 306-3/a changes in the classification of waste in 2022 mean that prior year
data are not comparable.

non-hazardous waste generated – biomass tonnes 1 414 716 1 027 439 306-3/a
hazardous waste generated – other waste tonnes 33 061 9 622 306-3/a
non-hazardous waste generated – other waste tonnes 363 331 524 592 306-3/a
looking at the whole landscape
trees secured for planting millions 24.6 12.4 14.7 commitment is cumulative, however, all numbers provided here are
annual achievements.

coffee sourced through the nescafé plan 2030 or nespresso aaa % 75.0 82.8 88.0 92.8
sustainable quality™ program
nespresso coffee sourced through the nespresso aaa sustainable % 93.0 92.6 93.1 94.4
quality™ program
number of forest and fruit trees distributed to cocoa farmers number 669 305 1 038 904 1 470 614 1 386 240
primary supply chains assessed as deforestation-free
primary supply chains for meat, palm oil, pulp and paper, soy and % 90.0 97.2 99.1 97.9 prior to 2023 coffee and cocoa were not included in this kpi, making
sugar assessed 100% deforestation-free by 20221 the numbers incomparable.

primary supply chains for coffee and cocoa, meat, palm oil, pulp and 93.4
paper, soy and sugar assessed 100% deforestation-free by 2025
meat % 99.9
palm oil % 96.0
pulp and paper % 98.2
soy % 97.9
sugar % 98.1
cocoa % 42.3
coffee % 92.8
1 cocoa and coffee only included in 2023.

water stewardship
water related incidents number 5 1 303-1/a fb-pf-140a.2
total water discharged million cubic meters 59.2 59.0 53.2 48.4 303-4/a
water use reduction in factories million cubic meters 1.69 2.30 2.38 3.00
nestlé waters sites certified to the aws standard number 34 19 21 23 this number reduced in 2021 due to the sale of nestlé waters
north america.

local water stewardship projects
water management
total water withdrawn million cubic meters 115.4 98.0 97.1 95.6 303-3/a fb-pf-140a.1
total water consumed million cubic meters 56.2 39.0 43.9 47.2 303-5/a fb-pf-140a.1
water withdrawn in regions with high or extremely high baseline % 25.0 35.4 36.1 36.7 fb-pf-140a.1
water stress
water consumed in regions with high or extremely high baseline % 30.0 49.1 51.5 48.6 fb-pf-140a.1
water stress
quality of effluents treated internally and discharged to the environment
total direct output of chemical oxygen demand load to tonnes 1 911
the environment
aggregated annual chemical oxygen demand concentration mgo2/l 81
effluent water treated internally % 51
table of contents nestlé's 2023 csv and sustainability kpis creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 81
indicator unit 2020 2021 2022 2023 gri index sasb index notes on the data
responsible sourcing
key ingredients responsibly sourced % 16.3 22.0 36.2 fb-pf-430a.1 key ingredients refers to 14 key agricultural raw materials that cover
95% of our annual sourcing by volume: cereals and grains; cocoa;
coconut; coffee; dairy; fish and seafood; hazelnuts; meat, poultry and
eggs; palm oil; pulp and paper; soy; spices; sugar; and vegetables.

certified palm oil sourcing (rspo or equivalent) % 58.1 71.1 71.0 100.0 fb-pf-430a.1 2022 data comprises roundtable on sustainable palm oil
certifications and credits as follows: 20.0% segregated, 1.6% mass
balance, 45.6% book and claims without including credits from
independent smallholders, 3.7% book and claims from independent
smallholders only.

virgin plastic reduction versus 2018 baseline % 4.0 8.1 10.5 14.9
recycled plastic in plastic packaging % 1.7 4.3 7.7 9.3 301-2/a fb-pf-410a.1
global plastic use by weight and type
global pet (polyester) use % 32.1 34.8 34.2
global pe (polyethylene) use % 18.1 19.1 19.1
global pp (polypropylene) use % 19.4 21.6 23.7
global po (polyolefin) use % 5.4 6.6 6.5
global laminates use % 24.1 17.2 15.3
global use, other plastics % 0.8 0.7 1.2
supporting balanced and sustainable diets
number of countries with audits on the nestlé policy on who code number 31 32 - data disclosed in this report relates to 2022 consolidated data,
which is one year behind our other kpis.

instances of detected non-compliances with the nestlé policy on number 116 96 - fb-pf-270a.3 data disclosed in this report relates to 2022 consolidated data,
who code which is one year behind our other kpis.

sanctions (with a threshold of chf 10 million) due to products’ number 0 0 0 417-2/a fb-pf-270a.4
labeling or marketing violations
total number of servings of micronutrient-fortified foods billions 205.3 207.4 211.4 205.8 the ‘big four’ micronutrients are iron, vitamin a, iodine and
and beverages zinc.

net sales from products with a health star rating of less than 1.5 – % 17 17
including petcare
net sales from specialized nutrition products – including petcare % 35 36
global nns covered by the assessment – including petcare %
97 95
compliance with nestlé marketing communication to children policy
compliance with nestlé marketing communication to children % 98.7 98.4 98.4
policy: tv
compliance with nestlé marketing communication to children % 100.0 100.0 100.0
policy: websites
compliance with nestlé marketing communication to children % 83.4 100.0 100.0
policy: social media
compliance with nestlé marketing communication to children % 100.0 37.5 88.9 100% of the audited influencers’ posts were assessed as not
policy: influencers appealing to children below 13 years.

following a change in
methodology, breaches for posts not targeted to children are
also included.

compliance with nestlé marketing communication to children % 95.5 84.0 96.8
policy: average total
food safety and quality
percentage of fssc certified manufacturing and r&d % 97 98 98.4
units that produce food and pet food for human and pets
(cats and dogs) consumption
ingredients sourced from tier 1 supplier facilities certified to % by cost 88.0 91.9 92.9 fb-pf-250a.2
a global food safety initiative (gfsi) recognized food safety
certification program
number of food safety recalls issued number 10 9 10 13 fb-pf-250a.4
table of contents nestlé's 2023 csv and sustainability kpis creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 84
indicator unit 2020 2021 2022 2023 gri index sasb index notes on the data
food safety and quality (continued)
global food safety initiative audits
global food safety initiative (gfsi) audit: (1) non-conformance rate number 2.85 2.77 2.79 fb-pf-250a.1
global food safety initiative (gfsi) audit: (2) associated corrective number 4.25 2.14 2.55 fb-pf-250a.1
action rate for major non-conformances
global food safety initiative (gfsi) audit: (3) associated corrective number 1.56 1.52 1.55 fb-pf-250a.1
action rate for minor non-conformances
our diverse and inclusive culture
management positions held by women % 46.4 405-1/b-i
apprenticeship and traineeship opportunities number 11 598 11 495 10 807 401-2
young people around the world with access to economic millions 2.4 3.8 5.6 7.7 401-1
opportunities since 2017
women on company board % 33.3 405-1/a-i
chairperson is a woman yes/no no
gender balance in board leadership % 20.0
chief executive officer (ceo) is a woman yes/no no
woman chief financial officer (cfo) or equivalent yes/no no
women executive officers % 31.2
chief diversity officer (cdo) yes/no yes
women in total management % 46.4 405-1/b-i
women in senior management % 34.6 405-1/b-i
women in middle management % 47.0 405-1/b-i
women in non-managerial positions % 38.9 405-1/b-i
women in total workforce % 39.8 405-1/b-i
women total promotions % 51.7
women it/engineering % 31.0
new hires that are women % 44.7 401-1/a
women attrition % 45.8
number of weeks of fully paid primary parental leave offered number 18 401-3
number of weeks of fully paid secondary parental leave offered number 4 401-3
parental leave retention rate % 91.9 401-3/e
flexible working policy yes/no yes
employee resource groups for women yes/no yes
unconscious bias training yes/no yes
annual anti-sexual harassment training yes/no yes
table of contents nestlé's 2023 csv and sustainability kpis creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 85
indicator unit 2020 2021 2022 2023 gri index sasb index notes on the data
opportunities for young people
young people impacted through digital events (e.g.

career fairs, number 1 291 306 1 415 687 1 393 147
educational webinars, e-learning programs) that focus on upskilling
young people and make them more employable
young farmers trained through agripreneurship program number 7 422 5 121 8 464
nestlé employees hired under 30 years old, unlimited and number 23 899 26 610 23 804
temporary contract
young entrepreneurs who have received some basic, but tangible number 64 977 72 630
benefit from nestlé
an employer of choice
markets offering employee assistance program (eap) to support % 93 403-6/a
employees' mental health and well-being
markets providing supportive measures for employees working % 93 403-6/a
with cancer
number of primary and secondary caregivers having used paid number 58 272 401-3/b
parental leave
retention of primary and secondary caregivers having used paid % 92.7 401-3/e
parental leave after one year
total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements % 54.4 56.3 52.7
average hours of technical or vocational training provided to workers hours 15.8 9.3 15.1 404-1/a
in the company's operations
employees reached through global employee health promotion number 130 063 156 600 227 000
communication campaigns
employees having watched #healthylives videos number 31 636 33 136 55 113
views of #healthylives videos number 445 776 509 974 701 704
views of healthtalks webinars number 14 480 4 066 3 885
activations in pleaz platform to support mental health and number 26 193 60 452 123 374
physical activity
employees having access to my health numbers program number 227 640 233 385 233 385
employees having participated in my health numbers program number 49 687 108 830 118 401
canteens offering a healthy meal % 94.4 94.6 96.0
markets offering a nap room or equivalent to rest % 53.0 54.5 38.0
recordable injury rate
recordable injury rate per million hours worked number 1.28 1.33 1.21 1.17 403-9/a-iii
total recordable fatalities number 5 3 6 1 403-9/a-i
total irreversible injuries number 14 13 22 10 403-9/a-ii
table of contents nestlé's 2023 csv and sustainability kpis creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 86
indicator unit 2020 2021 2022 2023 gri index sasb index notes on the data
an employer of choice (continued)
recordable illness rate
recordable illness rate per million hours worked number 0.71 0.66 0.66
total recordable fatalities from illnesses number 0 0 0 403-10/a-i
total irreversible illnesses number 20 20 16
total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary) by gender
total number of permanent employees: female number 94 337 94 072 96 172 2-7
total number of temporary employees: female number 8 779 8 335 8 471 2-7
total number of permanent employees: male number 155 175 147 310 149 800 2-7
total number of temporary employees: male number 8 632 7 883 7 857 2-7
total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary) by region
total number of permanent employees: asia, oceania and africa number 55 034 58 304 2-7
total number of temporary employees: asia, oceania and africa number 3 868 3 781 2-7
total number of permanent employees: europe number 76 618 77 222 2-7
total number of temporary employees: europe number 7 152 6 975 2-7
total number of permanent employees: greater china number 19 366 18 280 2-7
data not available for prior years due to restructure of
geographical zones.

total number of temporary employees: greater china number 276 560 2-7
total number of permanent employees: latin america number 55 125 53 732 2-7
total number of temporary employees: latin america number 4 512 4 570 2-7
total number of permanent employees: north america number 35 267 38 495 2-7
total number of temporary employees: north america number 412 446 2-7
total number of employees by employment contract (full-time and part-time) by gender
total number of full-time employees: female number 96 382 95 991 98 503 2-7
total number of part-time employees: female number 6 734 6 416 6 140 2-7
total number of full-time employees: male number 160 649 152 629 154 752 2-7
total number of part-time employees: male number 3 158 2 564 2 905 2-7
table of contents nestlé's 2023 csv and sustainability kpis creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 87
indicator unit 2020 2021 2022 2023 gri index sasb index notes on the data
the foundations of ethical business
care social audit program
number of data breaches notified to authorities number 8 8 418-1/b
locations covered by care audits number 300 379 389 440
care audits performed number 150 247 264 194
care audit improvement opportunities identified number 274 333 511 298
care audit gaps closed number 253 161 283 186
messages received through speak up system
total messages received through speak up system number 3 305 2 475 2 516 2 874
abuse of power and/or mobbing/bullying number 567 743 768
unfair treatment number 386 368 565
labor practice number 373 272 249
harassment (excluding sexual harassment) number 108 168 214
fraud (misappropriation or misconduct on number 137 128 131
accounting/financial statement)
safety and health number 156 122 88
violation of law/regulations number 91 120 104
gifts, families and relatives, conflict of interest number 91 91 109
bribery and corruption number 55 88 47 messages substantiated did not involve government officials.

violence and discrimination number 78 86 172
sexual harassment number 59 81 104
confidential information, privacy policy (data privacy, trade secrets, number 49 65 51
intellectual property)
third-party compliance number 94 54 135
seeking compliance advice number 63 43 65
mancom members related number 17 27 46
human rights (child labor, forced labor and modern slavery) number 49 16 1
environmental impact number 43 14 8
economic sanctions number 10 12 2
antitrust and fair dealing number 33 9 8
non-compliance against who code number 11 5 7
executive board members/senior managers in switzerland number 5 4 0
table of contents nestlé's 2023 csv and sustainability kpis creating shared value and sustainability report 2023 88
indicator unit 2020 2021 2022 2023 gri index sasb index notes on the data
the foundations of ethical business (continued)
cases substantiated through speak up system
total cases substantiated through speak up system number 532 580 578 691 2-16b
abuse of power and/or mobbing/bullying number 188 222 227 2-16b
unfair treatment number 97 26 68 2-16b
labor practice number 77 69 69 2-16b
harassment (excluding sexual harassment) number 37 52 44 2-16b
sexual harassment number 22 36 29 2-16b
fraud (misappropriation or misconduct on number 28 35 43 2-16b
accounting/financial statement)
violation of law/regulations number 25 27 27 2-16b
gifts, families and relatives, conflict of interest number 8 22 30 2-16b
bribery and corruption number 4 22 5 2-16b messages substantiated did not involve government officials.

safety and health number 29 21 21 2-16b
violence and discrimination number 19 16 53 2-16b
third party compliance number 17 8 48 2-16b
confidential information, privacy policy (data privacy, trade secrets, number 11 8 18 2-16b
intellectual property)
mancom members related number 2 6 3 2-16b
seeking compliance advice number 10 5 0 2-16b
environmental impact number 3 2 1 2-16b
non-compliance against who code number 1 1 4 2-16b
human rights (child labor, forced labor and modern slavery) number 1 0 1 2-16b
antitrust and fair dealing number 1 0 0 2-16b
economic sanctions number 0 0 0 2-16b
executive board members/senior managers in switzerland number 0 0 0 2-16b
messages closed through speak up system
total messages closed through speak up system number 2 721 1 944 1 758 2 341
community giving
financial aid chf 39 265 000 201-1/a-ii
product donations chf 135 490 000 201-1/a-ii
total community giving investment chf 177 471 000 201-1/a-ii
our full global reporting initiative (gri) index and sasb index can be downloaded here.